
Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3

Chapter 5

Chapter 6
Contents • 07 Contents | LIST OF TABLES 
Chapter 3

Chapter 4

Chapter 5
Contents • 09 Contents | LIST OF FIGURES 
Chapter 2

Figure	2-1	Tax	Revenue	and	Income:	1990-2000	············································································23

Chapter 3

Figure	3-1	Consumer	Price	Inflation	Rate	······················································································33

Figure	3-2	Illiteracy	Rate	of	Korean	Adults	·····················································································48

Chapter 4

Figure	4-1	Formation	of	Industrial	Capital	via	Land	Reform	·························································78

Chapter 5

Figure	5-1		Influence	of	Foreign	Aids	in	1950s:	Share	of	Foreign	Aids	in	Total	Imports	and	Total	
Government	Revenue	·····································································································87

Figure	5-2	Parasite	Infection	Rate	in	Korea	····················································································92

Figure	5-3	Gini	Coefficient	and	Real	Per	Capita	Income	Growth	···················································95
This paper is an economic study of the impact of aid on Korea, and the critical role it  played in laying the foundations for sustainable development. There is little doubt that  foreign  assistance  was  invaluable  in  aiding  Korea’s  survival  in  the  tumultuous  years  following its liberation in 1945 until the years immediately after the Korean War broke  out in 1950. But assessing the longer term impact of aid on Korea’s development presents  a more complex challenge. At one point, aid had a depilating effect on the economy and  the government. Corruption and rent-seeking behavior had taken hold of a government  dependent on aid, itself becoming an obstacle to reform and progress.  The lasting effects of aid and development policies on Korea can only be truly understood  after taking a broader view of the development process. In this regard, advances in modern  economics and the lessons of past reform experiences allow us to better explain Korea’s  social  and  economic  transformation.  Despite  the  highly  multi-faceted,  complex,  and  contextual nature of development, policy lessons can be drawn from past experiences and  Korea’s experience can offer some useful insights on current issues.
Summary • 011 2011 Modularization of Korea’s Development Experience Impact of Foreign Aid on Korea’s Development 
Chapter 1
Introduction Introduction When asking why different countries experience different growth patterns, the human  consequences of which are simply unimaginable, Robert Lucas (1988) conceded: “Once  one starts to think about them, it is hard to think about anything else.” Indeed, it is hard to  think about anything else but why Korea1 has been able to achieve the kind of spectacular  growth  that  has  eluded  so  many  other  countries.  Many  have  tried  to  explain  Korea’s  economic development; but few have truly considered the direct and indirect implications  of the massive amount of foreign aid on Korea’s development. From 1945 to 1976, Korea  was  the  recipient  of  nearly  US$13  billion  of  economic  and  military  assistance,  nearly  all of it in grants, allocated under the willful hand of the US. Korea also benefited from  Japanese economic cooperation funds, or colonial reparations, after relations between the  two countries were normalized.
After its liberation in 1945, following the World War II,  Korea suffered an economic  collapse and a civil war. Aid was critical in averting a humanitarian crisis in the wake of  World War II and the Korean War in a poor country that had just been freed of its colonial  rule. But foreign aid alone does not explain Korea’s miraculous economic development.  It is only part of the story. In fact, Korea became too dependent on aid and looked as if  it would become a ward of the US early on in its development. Economic growth was  largely aid-driven consumption. Moreover, the Korean government had become addicted to  aid, overvaluing its currency to maximize aid receipts and printing money to meet budget  needs. This made the economy susceptible to persistent high inflation and any attempt to  keep macro stability difficult. Possibly more detrimental to the Korean economy, the over  reliance on aid had given way to corruption and crony capitalism within government and  business, itself becoming an obstacle to economic reform and progress. As the 1960s began,  Korea’s economy was by all intents and purposes dependent on aid while the failures of the  Korean government gave merit to the label of a “basket case.” The turning point in Korea’s development history came under Park Chung-Hee; the  government  took  ownership  of  Korea’s  development  process,  addressing  government  failure and ceasing to be an obstacle to economic reform and progress. The government’s  efforts to root out corruption in government and carry out tax reform were perhaps the  single  most  important  government  actions  in  Korea’s  development  history.2  Korea’s  capacity  to  secure  tax  revenue  was  crucial  in  providing  sufficient  fiscal  resources- government savings-to maintain an economic environment conducive to growth, not to  mention allow the government to take an active role in economic development. Fiscal  soundness allowed Korea not only to manage inflation and induce foreign capital but also  to make huge investments in education and infrastructure. It also allowed the government  to provide subsidized credit and tax benefits for industrialization and to promote socio- economic policies such as construction of vital infrastructure and the Saemaul Movement  for broad based development.  It is difficult to imagine that Korea could have developed so rapidly, or even achieved  economic takeoff for that matter, had foreign aid not filled the financing (income) gap early  on in its development. The humanitarian role of foreign aid was invaluable in ensuring  the  survival  of  Korea  in  the  tumultuous  years  before  and  after  the  Korean  War.  But  foreign aid was also critical in putting Korea on a path to sustainable growth. The massive  investments financed by aid - the transfer of resources - raised the level of Korea’s capital  stock (including human capital and physical infrastructure), laying the basic foundations  for economic growth. Perhaps the event that had the most profound and lasting impact on  Korea’s development prospects did not come in the form of aid but of policies and chance  events. Land reform and the re-privatization of colonial properties under the heavy influence  of the US and chance events, conspired to determine the initial conditions that would shape  the evolution of Korea’s economy. A dramatic turn of events on the peninsula resulted in a  relatively flat distribution of income and wealth, effectively leveling the playing field and  rearranging Korea’s institutional setting.3 Any study of the impact of aid inevitably must be done in the context of development  economics. Indeed, aid and development go hand-in-hand like two wheels of a cart. Much  has been studied and said about Korea’s rapid economic development centered on export- 
Chapter 1 Introduction • 015
based industrialization.4 Yet, less is known about the nature of the economic policies in the  early years of Korea’s development, and impact of foreign aid, though the expansion of  primary education has been well documented. To fill this knowledge gap, this paper takes a  holistic approach, and does not rely on any single model of the development, in examining  the impact of aid, and its implications on Korea’s development, as a process of not only  “capital accumulation” but also “organizational change.”5 Nearly, 60 years after it was first  conceptualized, we posit that Rosentein-Rodan’s idea of a “big push” or a broad based,  centrally coordinated investment program provides a framework for explaining Korea’s  rapid, sustained and broad based development. A big push type of development program,  coordinated by the government and aid filling the income gap, allowed Korea to make  investments in human and physical capital. Beyond a big push type of investment program  or  the  transfer  of  resources,  understanding  the  importance  of  externalities  (spillovers  effects) and complementarities (forward and backward linkages) when markets may fail  to produce efficient outcomes, or in modern economic terms, coordination failures, help  to draw a richer picture of Korea’s development and the impact of aid. This paper contend  that the government played the role of mediating efficient outcomes by undertaking deep  and wide complementary interventions simultaneously in multiple sectors and by changing  the behavior of agents (social norms, belief systems)6 and establishing institutions (social  capital),  that  were  conducive  to  growth  and  underpinned  Korea’s  social  and  economic  transformation.  The  paper  begins  with  a  brief  survey  of  the  literature  on  the  evolution  of  modern  development theory and the leading issues that helped to shape it. In the next section, the  paper assesses the role and impact of foreign assistance during the period of 1945 to 1976.  It also discusses how the government took ownership of its development process once  economic assistance began to fall significantly after the early 1960s, and the effects of the  subsequent government policies of Park Chung-Hee such as rural development that led to  Korea’s broad-based development. In doing so, we take a close look at the political economy  of aid from the perspective of Korea as a recipient country and of the US and Japan as  donor countries. One of the key implications being that its effective use, and repayment of  concessionary loans helped Korea not only induce foreign currency loans needed to make  capital investments but also build its track record as a creditor for future foreign currency  loans to undertake industrialization. The final section concludes and draws policy lessons  based on Korea’s aid and development experience.  This paper makes no pretense on generalizing the policy lessons drawn from the subtleties  of Korea’s experience. The impact of foreign aid in Korea is extremely context specific.  Nonetheless, it is to be hoped that the paper provides some useful insights and lessons to  contribute in shaping future research and development policies.
Time Line of Key Events September 8, 1945  December 6, 1945  August 15, 1948  March 10, 1950  June 25, 1950    February 1952   US Military arrives in Korea after liberation from Japan  US Military Government effectively takes control of all formerly  owned Japanese property, or “vested properties,” which were  vested in the New Korea Company established by the US. Founding of Republic of Korea Government Farmland Reform Law (Law 108) promulgated and implemented. Korean War (to July 1953)  Vested lands and lands under Korean government’s land reform  program fully distributed. All land securities had been redeemed  in December 1969.

Chapter 1 Introduction • 017
2011 Modularization of Korea’s Development Experience Impact of Foreign Aid on Korea’s Development 
Chapter 2
Evolution of Economic Development Theory Evolution of Economic Development  Theory The modern advances in economic theory and modeling have allowed us to better explain  Korea’s social and economic transformation; in fact, it is the very same ideas used to justify  foreign aid to Korea and other countries since the 1950s that much of modern development  economics rests on today. In many ways, development theory, as Stiglitz and Hoff (2001)  write, has come full circle. So it is only fitting to briefly discuss how far development  economics has come in the last half century.7 Rosenstein-Rodan (1943) first conceptualized the idea of a “big push” for economies  stuck in a low-income equilibrium, or poverty trap. A simultaneous, massive, centralized  investment program was needed to lift the economy out of the trap by raising the level  of income, which would then enable the economy to takeoff into self-sustained growth.  Increasing returns achieved in one sector can spillover to another only if the spillover effects  of income associated with increasing returns are high enough; otherwise, the economy  would be stuck in a poverty trap. In other words, development can breed development  once a certain threshold was reached, resulting in a positive feedback loop that is self- reinforcing–“a virtuous circle.” The major implications of the big push besides the call for  a large investment push is that even market mechanisms could fail to coordinate activities  to ensure development; therefore, there is a role for government and policy intervention in  coordinating more efficient outcomes.  Nearly half a century later, Murphy, Shleifer, and Vishnay (1989) focus on a variety of  spillover effects across multiple variables in the economy (aggregate demand, industrial  demand for inputs, etc). They use the auto industry to illustrate their formalization of the big  push, in that, cars would not be produced unless there were steel factories to provide steel,  oil producers to produce gas, buyers to buy cars, roads to drive cars on, and so on.8 Without  coordination, the income effects of increasing returns in one industry could not spillover to  another complementary industry due to various market failures, thus an economy could not  grow and remain in a poverty trap.9 Theoretical work and empirical analysis on development have allowed us to formalize  many of the assumptions that were first inferred from Rosenstein-Rodan’s conceptualization  of the big push. We now recognize that multiple equilibriums can exist, both good and  bad, in various sectors of the economy, where market mechanisms fail to coordinate an  efficient outcome. In modern economic terms, there could be coordination failure, where  “individuals’ inability to coordinate their choices leads to a state of affairs that is worse for  everyone than some alternative state of affairs that is also an equilibrium (Hoff 2000).”  More importantly, the formalization of Rosenstein-Rodan’s intuitions has also shed more  light on the importance of externalities (spillover effects), complementarities (forward and  backward  linkages)  and  increasing  returns,  while  advances  in  modern  economics  have  revealed  critical  insights  on  imperfect  competition,  imperfect  information,  endogenous  variables (social and economic environment), and history (initial conditions), and their  relationship to each other, in understanding market economies and development; that not  all externalities may be internalized or mediated efficiently via non-market arrangements;  that underdevelopment may go beyond what neoclassical models of growth prescribed as  fundamental differences in technology, capital, or preferences, such as inefficient institutions  and lack of technological progress. Externalities and market failures can lead to various  coordination failures or traps including corruption trap, dualism, technology trap, etc. (Hoff  2000), which imply that obstacles to development may be a matter of coordination.  But the calls against government mediation are as loud as those for it. Krueger (1974)  argues that government intervention can increase returns to political rent-seeking, possibly  worsening the poverty trap; Easterly (2006) argues that big push plans may do more harm  than good because it induces government failure and poor governance; while Hayek (1978)  criticizes the idea of central planning because central planners lack sufficient information  needed to coordinate a big push.  
Chapter 2 Evolution of Economic Development Theory • 021
In briefly reviewing the empirical work on growth, we focus on studies that examine  the impact of aid on growth. It is a stylized fact that income growth is diverging “big time”  between rich and poor countries in the long run (Pritchett 1997); subsequent cross-country  empirical studies shows that growth has been quite uneven, characterized by fluctuations,  unsustainable  short  bursts  of  growth  and  persistent  periods  of  no  growth  over  a  long  period (Easterly and Levine (2001), Hausmann, Pritchett and Rodrick (2005)). In trying to  reconcile the very different growth patterns across countries, Easterly and Levine (2001)  conclude that “something else” must be happening here besides capital accumulation in  explaining differences in economic performance, noting that the data are more consistent  with poverty trap and externality models than neoclassical growth models which fail to  account for these anomalies. The authors also conclude that the divergence in income and  concentration of economic activity suggest geography and technology spillovers could be  factors for explaining the uneven growth.  Empirical  evidence  on  the  effectiveness  of  aid  on  growth  is  even  less  conclusive,  showing indiscernible results at best.10 In testing the big push theory, Easterly (2006) finds  little evidence in support of the theory, finding no evidence of poverty traps, defined as zero  or stagnant growth, for low income countries in most of the periods. The study also does  not find much data in support of take offs as defined as sustained rapid growth following  a period of no growth, except for Asian countries, let alone take offs induced with aid and  investment. Interestingly, Korea’s experience seems to prove the exception by exhibiting  a pattern of rapid growth that is sustained, but this should not be taken as clear evidence  in support of the big push theory nor of the poverty trap. Indeed, there is a need for more  country-specific and rigorous empirical analysis on the development process, as much of  the empirical literature on growth patterns is based on cross-country regressions.
There has been a long line of literature studying the relationship between state capacity  and economic growth. The capacity of the state, or lack thereof, has been used to explain  differences in cross-country growth patterns; in that countries unable to achieve economic  development suffer from corrupt and inefficient states. In an extension of the relationship  between the state and development, many economists have gone further by advocating  the important role a state can play in economic development. Within the large, growing  body of literature that study market supporting institutions i.e. property rights and contract  enforcement that are conducive to growth, there is growing recognition of the importance  of fiscal institutions, the capacity both to collect tax revenues and to facilitate more efficient  redistribution and allocation of resources (Acemoglu (2010), Besley and Persson (2010)).
If the ability to tax (and to govern) is a measure of a state’s capacity, then the capacity  of a state can be defined as the “power to tax and regulate the economy and to withstand  political and social challenges  from non-state actors (Acemoglu 2005).” Those that lack  the capacity are deemed to be “weak states,” both economically and politically. Acemoglu  (2005) shows that weak states tend to have lower tax revenue as a share of GDP and invest  less in public goods. Besides investing little in public goods, it can be also argued that states  with limited capacity also tend not to implement policies that redistribute resources to the  poor, and that allocate resources inefficiently.  Recent empirical studies confirm what has always been plainly observed; that, advanced  countries also seem to raise higher tax revenues. Indeed, studies have shown that higher  GDP per income positively correlates with higher tax revenues as a share of GDP (The same  correlations can be found between higher income/tax revenues and financial development.).11  
Figure 2-1 | Tax Revenue and Income: 1990-2000
  f o   %   s a   e u n e v e R   x a T GBR AUT DNK IRL PRT NZL MLTESP AUS CAN IPN SYC KNA CYP MUS NAM DZA ROM BGR TUNVUT LCA BWA LTU POLMYS CHL FJI GRD CRIPANTHA TURBRA LBN COL IRNRRY SWZ ZWE MAR EGY LKA SYR IDN PHL EOU ALB DOM BOL CPV INDCOMR BTN GIN CHN YEM BFAMDG SLE Note:  Log GCP per capital is the average log GDP based on Penn World Tables, and tax revenue is the average as  a share of GDP based on World Bank Data.
Source: Acemolgu (2005) 
Chapter 2 Evolution of Economic Development Theory • 023
The model used in Acemoglu (2005) predicts that “both weak and strong states create  distortions in the allocation of resources, and consequently, both excessively weak and  excessively strong states are likely to act as impediments to economic development.” As  such, it is necessary to have a “balance structure of economic and political power” where  the state is strong enough to raise sufficient taxes but not able to wield too much political  power and go unchecked. The same balance has to be achieved in the level of taxes where  taxes are high enough to create a surplus for the state to invest in public goods but not to  stifle economic activity.  Acemoglu  (2005)  writes:  “In  South  Korea,  General  Park  ran  a  highly  authoritarian  regime, with few formal checks on state power, and used the resources of the state to help  industrialization in alliance with the large Chaebols (as long as they did not pose a threat  to his political power).” As excessively weak and strong states can impede growth and lead  to misallocation of resources, Acemoglu (2010) cautions that the benefits of greater fiscal  capacity cannot be realized unless an increase in a state’s fiscal capacity is accompanied  by “an increase in the political accountability of rulers and politicians.” Otherwise, greater  fiscal capacity may increase the benefits of controlling state power, resulting in a power  grab and political instability.  In many poor developing countries, the state is not able to raise adequate tax revenues, let  alone play a role in economic development. Aside tax policy considerations, the issues and  challenges of tax administration in developing countries stem from several factors including  narrow tax base, lack of tax administrative capacity, poor governance or corruption, and low  taxpayer compliance. Indeed, tax revenue as a share of GDP is often found to be well below  15%, a key indicator for measuring the adequacy of tax revenues, in many poor developing  countries.
2011 Modularization of Korea’s Development Experience Impact of Foreign Aid on Korea’s Development 
Chapter 3
Aid and Development in Korea Aid and Development in Korea Does aid have a positive impact on development? It is as much a moral question as it is  an economic and political one. Any attempt to answer this question must be done in light  of these three poles. Aid was critical in averting a humanitarian crisis in the wake of World  War II and the Korean War in a poor country that had just been freed of its colonial rule.  Foreign aid had a huge impact on Korea’s reconstruction and development; it raised to a  large extent Korea’s capital stock primarily in human capital (education and health) and  basic physical infrastructure (roads, railways, power, water, and sanitation); and it provided  critical loans to finance industrialization.  But the great geopolitical uncertainty of the Korean Peninsula right after WWII, Korea’s  eventual physical partition, which culminated with a civil war, never allowed development  to get traction in the early years of the republic. By the late 1950s, signs of Korea’s economy  increasingly  becoming  aid-dependent  were  emerging. A  large  part  of  foreign  aid  was  comprised of commodities, which suppressed agriculture prices and distorted the incentives  of farmers. Indeed, rice production decreased from 14.7 million Sok in 1949 to 12.8 million  Sok in 1956, indicating 13.3% decrease (Lee, Dae-Keun, 2002). Besides the import of  US grain flooding the Korean agricultural market, agricultural production decreased since  around the time of land reform due to the small scale of farming land and weak agricultural  institutions for credits and fertilizer. As a result, farmers’ income, which had increased after  the land reform in the late 1940s and early 1950s, fell back. Such reduction of income led to  a rapid expansion of farmers’ debt as they received loans from the informal credit markets.  Because  the  Korean  economy  was  driven  by  investments  and  consumption  of  aid  commodities, funded by aid resources, it can be argued that a drop in US aid could result in  a drop in GDP growth. Lee (2002, p354) shows that Korean GDP began a decreasing trend  from a peak of 8.7% in 1957, when the amount of the US aid also peaked, to 2.1% in 1960.12  Moreover, the Korean government had become addicted to aid, overvaluing its currency to  maximize aid receipts and printing money to meet budget needs. This made the economy  susceptible to persistent high inflation and any attempt to keep macro stability difficult.  Possibly more detrimental to the Korean economy, the over reliance on aid had given way  to corruption and crony capitalism within government and business, itself becoming an  obstacle to economic reform and progress.13 As the 1960’s began, Korea’s economy was by  all intents and purposes dependent on aid while the failures of the Korean government gave  merit to the label of a “basket case.”  In the 18 years after its liberation in 1945, following World War II, Korea suffered from  a depressed economy, hyper-inflation, and a civil war, any one of which could impoverish  a country. After the Japanese departed,14 Korea’s economy was left a shell of its former  colonial self. Korea’s trade with Japan accounted for over 80% of total trade while Japanese  technical workers accounted for 82% of the total technical workers <Table 3-1>.15 But  Korea’s colonial past also meant that the remnants of Japanese technology and knowledge  as well as public institutions, left it the building blocks from which to build from. Besides  instituting a statutory basis and a structure of government administration, the Japanese built  a network of railways to transport goods and natural resources, and to connect Korea with  other Japanese territories <Table 3-2>.15 Railway network was fairly robust stretching a  total of 6,362 km (South Korea: 2,642km, North Korea: 3,720km) as of 1945. The less  impressive Japanese built a network of roads across the Korean Peninsula, which was better  in the South. Streetcars which ran on electricity were built in Seoul, Busan and Pyungyang.  There were also harbors in Busan, Inchon, Kunsan and Mokpo which were largely used to  facilitate trade with Japan. Korea was also able to produce a total of 988,700 KW of electric  power, in which 92% of the power produced was located in North Korea.  
Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 027
Total number of  technical workers  Korean technical  Workers (B) Source: Lee (2002, p493) Table 3-2 | Korea’s Natural Endowment and Economic Productive Capacity  South Korea North Korea Source: Kim, Euiwon (1983), A Study of the History of Korea’s Land, p741.  The introduction of a modern education system also occurred during Japanese colonization  though it was very limited to males and primary education. Indeed, as seen in <Table 3-3>,  Korea had very high illiteracy rate, which was 77.7% in 1930, where the illiteracy rate for  women was 92.0% and 63.9% for men. <Table 3-4> decomposes the illiterate population  by age groups. From the Table, it can be seen that high portion of the younger population  was illiterate, which makes us conclude that access to primary education was very low.  The illiteracy rate does not seem to have improved at all even at Korea’s liberation from  Japan, which remained high at 78% in 1945 for adults. As such, access to primary education  presumably also did not improve. Formal education even at the primary level was not  accessible by the general population. First, most Koreans, which were tenant farmers that  made little income, were not able to afford education costs. Moreover, the Japanese colonial  government suppressed any informal educational activities such as programs sponsored  by newspapers and local communities beginning in the mid 1930s and only worsened as  Japanese faced eventual defeat in WWII.  Table 3-3 | Korea’s National Literacy Rate as of October 1, 1930 Number of people Source:  Chosun Daily Newspaper, Dec. 22, 1934. Yoon Bok Nam (1990), Korea University Ph.D. Dissertation on  Social History of Korean Literacy  
Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 029
Number of Illiterate people Rate of Illiteracy (%) Source:  Chosun Daily Newspaper, Dec. 22, 1934. Yoon Bok Nam (1990), Korea University Ph.D. Dissertation on  Social History of Korean Literacy  Korea’s  industrial  base  was  dominated  by  the  Japanese,  which  supplied  the  capital,  technology and managerial know-how while Koreans supplied the labor. After the Japanese  departed, the economy once developed to exploit Korea and serve its imperial ruler was no  longer viable. With a political and economic vacuum left in its wake, the newly liberated  Korea soon descended into utter social chaos that soon precipitated a humanitarian crisis.  Such was the context in which foreign aid first arrived in Korea.
In  the  wake  of  the  World  War  II,  Korea  fell  under  the  auspices  of  the  US  Army  Military Government (USAMG) by virtue of having been a Japanese colony. Emergency  humanitarian relief and assistance was deployed under the Government Appropriations  for Reliefs in Occupied Areas (GARIOA),16 which had three basic objectives: preventing  widespread starvation and disease; boosting agricultural output; and overcoming a shortage  in most types of commodities or consumer goods. The emergency assistance provided much  needed humanitarian relief, staving off widespread starvation, disease, and social unrest  through the provision of basic necessities, including food stuffs and agricultural supplies,  which accounted for 35% and 24% of a total assistance, respectively, as seen below. Indeed,  the provision of grain totaled 44% of the total grain supply in Korea by 1947, while the large  amount of fertilizer imported to Korea led to the huge increases in agricultural production.
(Unit: US$1,000, %) Commodities (35%) (24%) (14%) (2%) (100%) Notes: 1)  “Reconstruction”  includes  the  following  categories:  automotive,  building  materials,  chemicals,  and  dye  stuffs,  communications,  educational  support.,  fishing  industry  supplies,  highway  construction  equipment, mining industry, office supplies, power and light, and railroad.  2)  1949 categories of aid goods, when differently classified, were allocated as follows: fertilizer is the  only item in agricultural supplies; in “unprocessed materials” are raw cotton, spinning raw materials,  crossties,  bamboo,  lumber  and  raw  materials  and  semi-finished  products;  “reconstruction”  includes  chemicals, hides and skins, pulp and paper, cement; salt, iron and steel, machines and equipment, motor  vehicle equipment, transport equipment, and rubber products.
Source:  Mason et al. (1980. p170). Bank of Korea, Economic Review, 1955, p314 for 1945-1948; and Monthly  Statistical Review, February 1952 for 1949. The categories listed for 1949 do not correspond precisely to  those for 1948. Their allocation in the 1945-48 classification is indicated in Note 2).  US assistance was administered under the following objectives: establishing a free and  independent  Korea  as  pledged  in  the  Cairo  and  Potsdam  conferences,  fostering  a  self- reliant country as a stabilizing force in Asia, and founding a new republic as an outpost  of democracy (Mason et. al, 1980). But the objectives were shrouded in a cloud of great  uncertainty,  as  Korea  remained  a  physically  divided  country  until  late  1947. As  such,  longer-term reconstruction efforts were put off, which were assessed to be undesirable, too  risky at the time, in light of the geopolitical uncertainty that arrested Korea. As Mason et  al. (1980) write: “…the US Congress was reluctant to provide funding; the Korean question was still  being debated in the UN; and the belief was held by many Americans that, because Korea  would eventually be reunited, America had no real stake in a costly and taxing program  aimed at economic development of a South Korea that might shortly be reunited with its  northern half.”  
Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 031
As such, US assistance during 1945 to 1951 focused on short-term assistance to address  immediate humanitarian relief by supplying basic commodities and supplies while only  a small amount was used for reconstruction efforts. There were efforts in implementing  a longer term and more sustainable economic development strategy under the Economic  Cooperative  Administration  (ECA),  but  in  reality,  the  ECA  essentially  operated  like  GARIOA, focusing on the import of commodities.  In 1948, the policy objectives of the US aid program were formalized under the ROK-US  Agreement on Aid, shortly after the founding of the Republic of Korea (ROK) led by the  new Syngman Rhee government. No sooner had Korea been cast free of Japan’s colonial  rule than did the US impose a strict set of provisions and controls to insure that the aid funds  were allocated and used efficiently, and not misused or misappropriated. Outlined under  12 articles of the ROK-US Agreement on Aid, it provisioned that the Korean government  agree to stabilize prices, to privatize the proprieties formerly owned by the Japanese, and to  liberalize markets, i.e. fair foreign exchange rate. The last provision on exchange rates was  a cause of “often acrimonious donor-recipient conflict over stabilization policy” that would  test the limits of the donor-recipient relationship (Mason et al 1980). The Rhee government  was intent on maximizing foreign aid receipts by keeping an overvalued currency against  the dollar.  The agreement also stipulated that the two governments had to implement mutually  agreed upon fiscal measures aimed at balancing the budget, reducing fiscal expenditures,  and maintaining a conservative money and credit supply. A consensus had to be reached  on any subsequent changes to fiscal, monetary, and balance of payment policies as well  as on a national reconstruction plan. Under Article 5, a counterpart fund account had to  be established at the central bank where the proceeds of US goods provisioned under the  assistance program and sold in the market place were to be deposited. The allocation and  uses of the counterpart funds had to be mutually agreed by both governments.
The conditional nature of the ROK-US Agreement on Aid was judged to be unfavorable  and intrusive by the Korean government. In effect, it was a show of a lack of confidence  on the part of the donor, which from the donor’s standpoint seemed justified in light of the  recipient country’s failures in managing the economy and a poor governance track record.  Mason et al. (1980) describes the Korea-US relationship:  “There were periods when Korean and American officials had similar and compatible  views as to the objectives and appropriate forms of US assistance. There were other times  when the disagreements were profound and often exposed to public view. Then, there were  some critical turning points when a change in the substance, or form, or even the perception  of the assistance precipitated a convergence or divergence of views and actions of the two  governments which, in turn, had significant implications for Korean development and US- Korean relations.”  As a result, the assistance program suffered from policy inconsistencies and lack of  support from the Korean government at the outset while the US believed Korea was slow  to institute the stabilization policies and sought to maximize inflow of aid by maintaining  an overvalued foreign exchange rate.17 Ultimately, the US held all the levers of aid, and  ended up getting policy cooperation from the Korean government. It should be noted that  the macro stabilization and fiscal austerity measures had real positive effects in checking  hyperinflation and shoring up Korea’s fiscal budget, as well as laying the ground works for  development. After liberation and the Korean War, the economy suffered hyperinflation  caused by rapid expansion of the money supply as the government kept printing money to  meet budgetary needs and finance the war.  
Figure 3-1 | Consumer Price Inflation Rate
Source: Bank of Korea, Annual Report of Economic Statistics  By  mid  1949,  the  Korean  and  US  governments  began  preparations  on  economic  reconstruction.  The  Korean  government  took  the  initiative  by  devising  a  five  year  reconstruction  plan,  centered  on  industrial  development  to  promote  the  manufacturing  sector.  The  Korean  plan  was  considered  to  be  too  ambitious  by  the  ECA;  ultimately,  unrealistic by the US Congress. In any case, the ECA reduced the size and scope of the  original plan and submitted a three year reconstruction plan totaling US$350 million to  the US Congress for approval. To make Korea a viable and self-sustainable country, the  proposed plan as described by Mason et al. (1980) focused on three basic areas of capital  investment: “development of coal, expansion of thermal power generating facilities, and  
Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 033
construction of fertilizer plants, in that priority order.”18 The Korean recovery plan assumed  that US assistance would end by 1953, and any balance-of-payment deficits would be met  by private foreign investment and borrowings. However, the plan was strongly opposed by  the US Congress and failed to be approved by one vote. The bill, HR 5330, was eventually  revised and passed to a one year US$110 million development plan.19 As a result, the ECA  had to pare down the size of the aid program especially in capital investments and to shorten  the program’s duration.
These efforts would be for nothing, as war broke out on the Korean Peninsula with the  invasion of North Korea on June 25, 1950, essentially grinding the aid and reconstruction  efforts  to  an  immediate  halt,  and  reallocating  resources  for  military  and  humanitarian  assistance. Indeed, the order of priority had once again focused on humanitarian assistance  first and development later. Under the UN flag, Korea received multi-lateral assistance of  US$457 million, of which all but a fraction came from the US, as part of war time relief  efforts. A military-administered relief and assistance program was organized under the UN  and the civil relief program. Most notably, the Civil Relief in Korea (CRIK) was established.  Much of the assistance was used for food stuffs, and textiles and clothing, representing 40%  and 24% of total assistance, respectively. The UN relief efforts were crucial in preventing  widespread starvation and disease.
Table 3-6 | UN Civil Relief Efforts (Unit: US $million, %) (40%) (24%) (4%) (6%) (6%) (1%) (13%) (1%) (4%) (100%) Source: Lee (2002), The Korean Economy in the Post-Liberation period and the 1950s  Based on the premise that the Korean War would end fairly quickly and the Korean  peninsula would once again be re-unified, the Korea Reconstruction Agency (UNKRA)  was established in December 1950 to resume economic reconstruction efforts. In this sense,  UNKRA’s mission was different from CRIK; in that, its goal was to “lay the economic  foundations for the political unification and independence of the country (Mason et. al  1980).” However, the war as it would turn out dragged on for far much longer than anyone  anticipated. As a result, UNKRA’s role in its first and second years of establishment was  limited. It was not until after the Korean War had ended that UNKRA was able to provide  significant amount of assistance and support in the reconstruction of Korea’s economy:  repairing devastated properties, providing rehabilitation supplies, transport, and services  for Korean industry.
The funding source for UNKRA was largely provided by the US after efforts to mobilize  a multi-national aid package based on voluntary subscriptions from 40 nations (35 UN  member nations and 5 non-member nations) failed to materialize amid of great uncertainties  surrounding the unification of Korea. Initially, the US had pledged to provide upto 66% of  the total aid, however, the aid provided to Korea became bilateral between the US and Korea.  About 40 countries pre-committed to provide a total of $208 million for funding UNKRA,  however, only $122 million was mobilized and used for Korea’s rehabilitation (See Table  3-7). One salient feature of UNKRA aid was that the composition of the aid went toward  economic productive capacity at 70% while consumption was 30%. This ratio was different  from the aid efforts under GARIOA and International Cooperation Administration (ICA).  Since UNKRA aid sought to facilitate reconstruction, aid was used to import equipment  and to construct new factories including Inchon Plate Glass Factory, Moon-Kyung Cement  Factory, and Sam-Duck Paper. UNKRA aid was also used to rehabilitate damaged industries  such as Janghang Smelting Factory, large-scale textile factories, and coal mine. Some of the  UNKRA aid was used to fund policy loans to SMEs in manufacturing and mining industries  through the BOK which made loans based on recommendations of Ministry of Commerce  and Industry (Lee, 2002).

Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 035
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 118 402 916 71 17 261 - 768 212 200 9 - - 128 55 8 - 84 147 1 1 - - - - -  (Unit: US$1,000) Source: Lee (2002, p323-324)  - 751 1,413 224 - 737 346 416 
Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 037
After the ceasefire in 1953, the Korean peninsula was left war-torn, divided and in utter  destruction. South Korea suffered massive social and economic damage; civilian causalities  totaled nearly 1.5 million while the destruction of properties were estimated to be about  US$3.1 billion, leaving nearly 43% of residential homes and 42-43% of industrial facilities  damaged compared to pre-war levels. To help with reconstruction efforts, Korea received  massive  amounts  of  US  economic  aid  totaling  about  US$3  billion.  Moreover,  military  assistance as a share of total US bilateral aid began to increase after the Korean War, when  military assistance comprised more than half of total US aid to Korea in the 1960s as seen  below.20 Table 3-8 | US Assistance to South Korea: 1946-76 (Unit: US $Million) Sources: Mason, Kim, Perkins, Kim and Cole (1989), p182  After the tragedies of the Korean War led to a false-start on Korea’s economic recovery  plans, preparation for a national reconstruction plan resumed once more. Just as before  the war, the Korean and US government found themselves in disagreement over Korea’s  development  strategy  and  the  allocation  and  uses  of  aid  resources.  Again,  economic  historian Lee (2002) writes, the Korean government was intent on pursuing a development  strategy oriented on capital investment to increase production. It, thus, proposed to allocate  70% of total aid to repair damaged industrial plants, leaving the rest to be used for consumer  goods. The US aid administrators insisted on pursuing stabilization first, then development,  placing priority on reining in hyperinflation caused by the expansion of debt to finance  the war, and on securing a bare subsistence level of living. The imperative was securing  macroeconomic  stability  and  a  self-sustainable  path  to  development  to  reduce  Korea’s  dependence on foreign aid. In principle, the Korean and US governments knew where they  wanted to go; they just didn’t agree on how to get there. It was clear to the US that the  Korean government sought not only to secure as much aid as possible but also to allocate  as much of the aid as possible to increase investment. In the end, the Korean government  capitulated to US demands. Foreign aid was focused on increasing the supply of consumer  goods and intermediate goods to curb inflation while providing basic essentials (Krueger,  1979).
Table 3-9 | Aids from US and UN by Types  Raw materials (Unit: $Million, %) GARIOA ECA/SEC CRIK UNKRA FOA/ICA PL480 Total Source: Lee (2002).  After  the  Korean  War,  the  Foreign  Operation Administration  (FOA)  was  created  in  August 1953 to administer US aid with the objective of economic rehabilitation and military  assistance. Between August 1953 and June 1955, the US provided a total of US$ 206 million  in assistance to Korea, where 34% of the assistance went to facility investments, and 66% to  consumption goods and raw materials <Table 3-10>.21 In June 1955, the FOA was renamed  the International Cooperation Administration (ICA), while its main objectives remained  unchanged. Under the ICA, a total of about US$ 1.3 billion of aid was disbursed, essentially  the single largest aid program in Korea, peaking in 1957.

Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 039
(Unit: $1,000) Planned  amount (A) Arrived  amount (B) Source: Lee (2002).  Korea’s major infrastructure (road networks, railroads and irrigation facilities) before  1950 was reasonably good considering all else. The railroad system connected the major  cities. However, the road network was poor, even for a developing country and its roads  in the rural sector were never developed well. But the Korean War destroyed some of the  infrastructure.
US assistance under the ICA was comprised of two categories: project assistance for  facilitating investment to increase production and non-project assistance for consumption  goods and raw materials to provide relief and secure economic stabilization. During 1955- 1959, non-project assistance comprises 70% of total aid, the largest component of being  fertilizer (19% of total aid), followed by wheat (13% of total aid) and energies (9% of total  aid). Project assistance accounted for 30% of total aid, of which nearly 37% of the aid  was used to construct railways for YoungAm railway, Choongbuk railway, and Hahmbaik  railway. Some of the project assistance was used to investment in manufacturing including  the construction of the Choongju Fertilizer Plant, Busan Arsenal, electric wire factory,  pesticide factory, rubber recycle factory, tire factory, Busan Shipyard. In addition, the ICA  project assistance use used to build 44 new small-sized plants for about 7.8 million US  dollars including four starch factories, three flour mill, five pharmaceutical factories, three  jelly factories, limestone factory, leather factory, plastic manufacturing factory, asbestos  factory, paper mill, and printing factory (Lee, 2002, p330). Project assistance was also used  to reconstruct the Hwachon hydro power plant which was damaged during the War as well  as thermal power plants in Yongwol, Danginri, and Masan. Despite the low percentage of  foreign assistance spent on facility investment relative to raw materials, the size of the total  facility investment is still quite sizeable in absolute terms under the ICA.
By the end of 1950s, much of the infrastructure including railways, roads, and harbors  that were damaged during the war was rehabilitated back to nearly pre-war level, thanks to  the foreign aid. The reconstruction efforts faced a major challenge in supplying adequate  electric  power  to  meet  the  social  and  economic  demand.  Much  of  the  electricity  was  supplied  from  power  factories  in  the  North  before  the  partition  of  Korea. The  Korean  government established three-year electric power construction plan starting 1954 that was  based on hydro electricity. However, the US opposed these plans in favor of focusing on  thermal power electricity which argued that thermal power was more cost efficient based on  electricity demand. So, only one hydroelectric plant was constructed at Koisan in the late  1950s while the planning for other hydro-electric plants began in 1961.22  Table 3-11 | Electric Power Output and Number of Power Plants Number of Plants Hydro-Plants Steam-Plants Electric Power Output (KW) Source:  AD/DLEI, Power Branch, USAID/K from “Land Reform in South Korea” June 1970 by Morrow and  Sherper (1970) 
Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 041
3. Investments in Education With  considerable  US  financial  and  technical  assistance,  Korean  education  system  underwent  significant  transformation  in  form  and  substance.23  An  estimated  US  $100  million  alone  went  into  education  and  training  during  post-Korean  War  reconstruction  period. The foreign assistance in education was administered by the Armed Forces Aid to  Korea (AFAK) and UNKRA during the early years of post-war reconstruction. It was then  transferred to the ICA.24 The goals of the assistance efforts in Korean education after 1953  centered on: classroom construction, secondary and vocational education, teacher training,  and higher education. There was also a good deal of technical assistance carried in the  military.  Table 3-12 | ICA Aid By Commodity: 1955-59  (Unit: US $1,000) Source: Lee (2002) The physical presence of the US and its geopolitical motives in the region had a unique  and profound impact on Korean education. As Mason et al. (1980) write: “Schools under  the US Military Government (1945-48) also had clearly defined political and economic  purposes: to convert Korean youth and adults to the American conception of democracy  and to provide basic skill training.” To spread American ideals and values, US assistance  in cooperation and support of Korean educators sought to significantly increase access to  education to all Koreans. Korea would eventually achieve universal primary education in  late 1950s while making all primary schools coeducational. By 1948, 15 million textbooks  were printed and distributed. The Korean language of Hangeul was formally reintroduced  in the curriculum, and any elements of Japanese tradition in education were discarded.  The Korean curriculum underwent significant change with the incorporation of scientific  methods in education that put emphasis on “problem solving” and “learning-by-doing”  (Mason et al. 1980, p344).  
Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 043
Classroom Secondary Eligible Population Source:  UNESCO in Dodge (1971) “US Assistance to Korean Education, a History of a Decade of US Foreign  Early in Korea’s development, a considerable amount of US aid went into education; a  great deal was invested to expand access to primary education by repairing and building  education  facilities  and  vocational  schools,  and  by  providing  technical  assistance  for  educating and training new teachers. US aid was also used in civic schools for older students  that no longer qualified for compulsory education. Indeed, civic schools for adults that  taught basic reading, writing and math, were critical in sharply reducing the illiteracy rate  among adults within a very short amount of time. In 1945, an estimated 78% of Koreans  were illiterate, meaning they could not read or write in Hanguel or in any other language.  Before 1945, education at any level was limited to the very few ruling elite. Even during  Japanese colonization, education was largely restricted to a few, and the few that did go to  school, received a Japanese education.
By the 1960s, major progress had been made in providing access to primary and middle  school education in Korea. Between 1952 to 1967, nearly 20,000 classrooms were built  and 3,000 more repaired, material and technical assistance helped to improve vocational  education,  SNU  Colleges  of Agriculture,  Engineering,  and  Medicine,  were  rebuilt  and  equipped,  and  assistance  was  provided  to  improve  textbooks,  science  education,  early  childhood education, and the libraries. Indeed, the Ministry of Education claimed achieving  a literacy rate of nearly 90% in 1968 for people over the age of 6 years.25 Based on the  rapid growth in the number of institutions, teachers and students, the results of the heavy  investments in education supported by foreign aid were undeniable from 1945 to 1965, as  seen below.
Table 3-14 | Expansion of Korean Education during 1945 to 1965 Number of Institutions Number of Teachers Number of Students Source:  US Department of State, “The Development of Education for the New Korea” in Dodge (1971) “US  Assistance to Korean Education, a History of a Decade of US Foreign Aid.” Quite possibly more important, and controversial, than the quantitative expansion were  the efforts to build an education system modeled on western-democratic ideals, values,  and  practices,  much  of  it  a  reaction  to  the  perceived  threat  of  communism  which  had  infiltrated the North. As McGinn et al. (1980, p86) write, the US was “determined to use  education in Korea as a major vehicle for the democratization of society.” Indeed, the US  Military Government was active in promoting civic schools for literacy and basic education  on values and beliefs of western democratic institutions, “the American Way of Life.” As  such, the civic schools were focused on the adult populations. By 1948, nearly 15,400 civic  schools were established and more than 1 million adults were enrolled.  In step with the US policy initiative on civic schools, the Education Act was passed by  the newly established Korean government in December 1949, which gave civic schools  legal statutory basis and outlined the activities and objectives of the civic schools. Article  140 of the Education Act made civic schools compulsory for adults who were born after  1910 and had not attained the primary education. The Act also specified that students of  civic schools were required to complete a minimum of 200 hours of classes over 70 days.  These classes were held during the off-seasons so that farmers could attend. The curriculum  
Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 045
for  civic  schools  not  only  taught  basic  readings  but  also  basic  math,  and  science  and  social studies. Essentially, the Korean government implemented the same policy on adult  education through the civic schools as US military government. In implementing the policy  for adult education, the Ministry of Education put emphasis on promoting “education for  Koreans by Koreans” by training Korean teachers to teach Korean adults.  From the summer of 1946, the government-led adult education started to extensively  eradicate illiteracy as well as foster people to become the citizens of a democratic nation  (Lee, Hee-Su, 1996). The Adult Education Bureau took charge of training leaders who  would go to cities and countries to teach illiterate people and each leader had to go to  different cities and countries and train local leaders who would teach in neighborhoods and  villages.  Table 3-15 | Status of Local Instructors (1947) Instructors in Gu, Eup,  Instructors in Ri, Dong participants participants participants Source: Hee-Su Lee (1996)  Separately, Koreans that came down from the North after 1945 were educated to instill  the Western values and principles. Furthermore, factory workers in the age of 13 to 16  also were educated in programs offered at the factories. The US also pushed the policy of  decentralizing education and devolving power to the local level. But these were largely  considered to have failed on the part of the US.
Since military service has been a requirement for all able bodied Korean males, the effects  of military training and education played an important role in improving Korea’s overall  literacy rate. Korea had received significant amount of military assistance from the US to  ensure peace and security on the Korean peninsula and the Northeast Asia after Korean  War. Military servicemen were required to be taught basic education in reading and writing  as well as math during the basic military training. The military trainees were required to  complete 44 hours of education per week for 6 weeks. This included 220 hours of reading  and writing and 44 hours of math. A total of nearly 600 thousand servicemen received basic  education since the establishment of Korean military in 1952 to 1970.26 Under the program,  student adults were required to take a total of 50 hours of classes including 30 hours in  reading, 10 hours in math, and 10 hours in new government’ national objective. Between  1961 and 1963, a total of 1 million adjusts completed the educational program.
Table 3-16 | Total Number of Military Servicemen Educated in Basic Reading  and Writing Total Number Total Number Source: Byun, Jong-Im (2011) The quantitative impact of US assistance in education in Korea can be summed up as  follows. Korea’s illiteracy rate among the adult population fell sharply within the very short  amount of time. From 1945 to 1948, the illiteracy rate fell from 78% to 42%, and fell  sharply again from 1948 to 1959, before following below 10% in 1990s.27 By 1948, 2.3 million children were enrolled in elementary school, more than 100,000 in  secondary schools, and almost 90,000 in technical/industrial schools (McGinn, Snodgrass,  Kim, Kim, and Kim, 1980). The rapid improvement in the literacy rate and education  outcomes can be attributed to assistance efforts both in formal and informal education.

Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 047
Figure 3-2 | Illiteracy Rate of Korean Adults Source: Yoon Bok Nam (1990) Education But the outbreak of the Korean War disrupted the progress made on rebuilding Korea’s  education  system.  The  tragedy  of  the  war  resulted  in  the  destruction  of  schools  and  classrooms, and loss of life among many teachers who had either been killed or disappeared.  After the Korean War, the education system was severely damaged, resulting in a classroom  shortage. Dodge (1971) writes: “Of the 42,478 classrooms that existed before the Korean  War, 10,018 were totally destroyed, 4,976 were half destroyed, and an additional 13,971  were damaged.” In other words, the nation lost the use of 70% of its classrooms. Once  reconstructions efforts were restarted, the assistance focused on providing material aid at  the primary and secondary level, as well as increasing investments in higher education. In  early 1952, the head representative of UNESCO recommended that financial assistance be  used in education after making an assessment during a visit to Korea. As such, UNESCO  and UNKRA developed a five-year program for the development of Korea’s education  system that provided nearly US$ 11 million dollars in education assistance under UNKRA,  most of which was used to repair schools destroyed during the Korean War as seen below.
(Unit: $ Thousand) - 142 325 279 114 - 164 - Source: Lee, Wang-Joon (2006, p395), The Influence of Minnesota Project on the Korean Medical Education.  Under the ICA, a considerable amount of US assistance was invested in human capital  development  especially  in  higher  education. A  sizeable  amount  of  US  assistance  went  into “technical cooperation assistance activities” to build capacity in higher education but  also technical and vocational training in general.28 A total of US20 million dollars was  invested to train new teachers and professors as seen in table below. Assistance was also  provided for materials and equipments for secondary level education, most of which went  to improving vocational education facilities. The assistance included organizations of two  vocational teacher training departments at SNU, the training teachers outside of Korea, and  development to high schools.  
Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 049
(Unit: $ Thousand) Source: Lee (2006, p395), The Influence of Minnesota Project on the Korean Medical Education To fill the primary schools left vacant by the repatriation of Japanese teachers which  accounted for 40% of all teachers, eight new teacher schools were established with help of  US aid by 1951 to train new primary school teachers. At the time, enrollment in primary  schools nearly doubled from 1.4 million in 1945 to 2.5 million in 1947 as the demand for  education increased since it was denied to most Koreans during Japanese colonization.  The urgency to establish schools led to many untrained educators to operate the schools.  As seen in Table 19, there were 17 normal schools with 387 teachers and 10,137 students  enrolled in 1952. One aspect of normal school was that funding was based on combination  of contribution from students’ households and the government scholarship. The curriculum  for normal schools was established by the Ministry of Education as shown below.
Table 3-19 | Comparison of Normal School Enrollments by Province in July 1952 No of Normal  Normal School  Normal School Enrollment Male Total Source: Dodge (1971, p214) Second Year Source: Dodge (1971, p217) Note: * included 5 weeks student teaching Beginning in 1952, the US provided technical assistance for teacher training by sending  a team of 6 educators. These types of technical assistance continued until 1955 funded by  UN and private donors such as American–Korean Foundation. It was around this time that  then US began to consider the development of longer-term project for improving teacher’s  education.  A teacher education program was carried out in Korea in cooperation with the George  Peabody College of Teachers, which provided technical assistance. This program benefited  several universities including Seoul National University, Korean normal schools, junior  colleges,  and  lower-level  schooling  programs.  Under  the  Peabody  Program,  technical  assistance was carried out between 1956 and 1962, where about 40 Peabody faculty members  were sent to Korea to train and educate Korean educators in western-style education. The  Korean educators were trained in educational theory, curriculum development and teaching  practices through on-site technical assistance at various educational institutions in Korea.  Also, nearly 80 Korean teachers participated in an exchange program and were sent to the  US to receive training in higher education.29 
Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 051
6.  Capacity Building and Technical Assistance in Higher  Education Before Korea’s liberation, access to higher education remained largely limited. Imperial  University,  which  would  eventually  be  reorganized  into  SNU,  was  established  by  the  Japanese. Enrollment at Imperial University during Japanese rule was very selective and  limited to a small percentage of Koreans.30 After Korea’s liberation, a number of national  and provincial universities and colleges were established. Most of the increase came from  the  rapid  growth  of  private,  degree-granting  colleges.  By  1952,  the  number  of  higher  learning institutions totaled 42 and the number of student enrollment totaled 33,542 (3,958  women).31 Despite the expansion of higher learning, Korea’s university system was in need  of urgent reform to improve the quality rather than quantity of education. Moreover, Korea  suffered a huge deficit in the number of skilled workers and technicians after the departure  of the Japanese which held most to the skilled jobs during their occupation. As such, top  priority was put on upgrading Korean higher education and research, and secondary and  vocational education to support Korea’s economic development.
To build up Korea’s technical capacity, considerable amount of financial and technical  assistance  went  into  upgrading  Korean  secondary  and  vocational  education  as  well  as  in  institutions  of  higher  learning. A  good  deal  of  technical  assistance  was  carried  out  through US technical cooperation programs under “university contracts” which enlisted  the participation of US universities and technical institutions to facilitate the exchange of  knowledge and skills. The basic objectives of the technical cooperation program were:  expansion  of  education  in  fields  of  engineering,  medicine,  agriculture,  and  public  or  business administration; support of specific services or industries, expansion of research,  and training of technical manpower. During 1955-59, a total of 1,421 Koreans studied in  the US.  In Korea, the Minnesota Program provided technical and material assistance to SNU  during 1954 to 1961, for the Colleges of Agriculture, Engineering, and Medicine of Seoul  National University. Later on, technical cooperation was expanded to include the fields of  nursing, veterinary, and public administration. Under the ICA-University of Minnesota (U  of M), Korean instructors and administrators studied and observed at the U of M. A total of  226 SNU instructors (77 from the College of Medicine) studies in the US at U of M. Also,  a total of 59 US experts and advisors (11 advisors for SNU College of Medicine) were  dispatched to SNU to act as in-house consultants, to provide assistance the implementation  of new systems and methods adopted by Koreans, under the banner of “assist and not  displace.” Material assistance was provided to rehabilitate and improve facilities and to  provision new equipment.  One particular program under the Minnesota Program focused on the modernization  of Korea’s medical education system, a leftover of Japanese colonial rule, to improve the  standards of medical training and healthcare. Under the program, war-damaged medical  facilities were repaired; new facilities for training healthcare providers were built including  nursing and public health schools; and modern medical equipment, systems and practices  were introduced at SNU medical college. But more importantly, this program assisted in the  training of professors at the SNU medical college.
In 1960, U of M was one of 53 US colleges that participated in the ICA program, which  totaled nearly US$ 100 million, with 96 contracts covering 33 countries. To maximize the  effectiveness of the program, countries and universities were matched based on various  criteria that best suited their conditions. The University benefited from the program which  increased the school (Chu, Keun-Won Chu, 80 years of Not Looking Back, 1998, 96p, Lee,  Wang-Joon, 2006, p37, recited).
Table 3-21 | Technical Cooperation through US Universities US colleges that provided technical assistance 
Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 053
US colleges that provided technical assistance Source:  ICA. ICA, Technical Cooperation through American Countries, ICA Office of Public Reports, Washington  DC 1956. Recited from Lee (2006, p400) By end of 1963, the technical assistance activities carried out under US university contracts  amounted to more than US $158 with a total of 72 universities performing education and  technical assistance under 129 contracts with ICA.32 The number of universities involved  and of foreign students enrolled in the programs increased every year since the start of the  program. During 1962-1963, nearly 64,000 foreign students were enrolled at US institutions  of higher learning. Among the foreign students, 4,619 foreign students were in fields related  to medicine and public health. Nearly 40% of the students were self supported, while 24%  were supported by US universities, 15% by private organizations, 10% by US aid and 6%  by foreign governments. More than 1,000 foreign medical scholars or faculty studied in the  US during 1962-1963, many funded by US aid. Based on percentages, 38% of all foreign  medical graduates working in the US came from Asia and Far East.33 US University Contracts Source: Dodge (1971) December 1961 Table 3-23 | Korean Medical, Dental, and Pharmacy Colleges in 1952 Enrollment as of Oct.  Permanent Korean War Busan Seoul Kwangju Severance Source: Dodge (1971) 
Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 055
Korean medical education was mostly based on the “systems and practices used in Japan,  as modified from those used in Germany.”34 During the Korean War, the college was forced  to evacuate to Busan, scattering students and teaching staff all over the country. Only the  medical school in Kwangju could operate during the war in its original location. The other  colleges had to relocate to temporary accommodations. Many staff members volunteered  for  military  service  as  medical  officers.  The  school  stopped  operations  for  nearly  one  year and reopened in 1951. Some medical staff and students were abducted when North  Korea retreated, some managed to come back but some went missing. During the war, the  university’s buildings were used by US Armed Forces from 1952 until 1954.  Timeline of SNU College of Medicine: 1899  Founded as Kwang Jae Won by government under King Kojong 1907  Reinstituted as Dai Han Hospital 1910  Renamed as Chosun Colonial Government Hospital by Japanese 1926   Keijo (Seoul) Imperial University, hospital became part of Imperial University. It  was one of six universities in the entire Japanese imperial empire by 1945.
Keijo Imperial University College of Medicine.
US Military Government. It formed one of 12 colleges of SNU.
After the Korean War, nearly 75% of the already small number of 99 hospitals were  destroyed or damaged, and estimated 5 million Koreans were without modern healthcare.35  The WHO/UNKRA Health Planning Mission assessed Korea’s healthcare and concluded:  “highest national priority should be given to the immediate and full restoration of educational  activities.” Moreover, medical doctors were in great demand by the military as Korea had  to keep wartime readiness after the Korean War. Despite the signing of the armistice which  effectively was a ceasefire, the years after the Korean War was a period of great uncertainty  and instability. The fear of another war and the threat of communism were widespread. The  SNU Medical School had a small clinical hospital and a staff that included 20 professors,  many of whom were on leave serving in the military at the time. This put additional pressure  on SNU Medical College to maintain a high enrollment rate.
The Korean War had left the institutions of Korean higher education war-shattered.36  Many of the schools suffered massive damages to their facilities, a lack of trained and  qualified instructors, and a shortage of books, labs, and supplies. To rebuild and upgrade  Korea’s  higher  education,  the  Korean  government  sought  the  assistance  of  the  US  in 1953. One of the first proposals was presented by Dr. L. George Paik, who was the  former Minister of Education and eventual President of Yonsei University. The proposal  intended to assist Korea’s four major private universities including Ewha, Korea University,  Severance Medical College, and Yonsei University, with US assistance being used to secure  affiliations with US universities. But the proposal was significantly changed by the Korean  government, which gave priority to SNU. It was hoped that SNU would develop into “a  national center for high level leadership training for Korea” where the benefits accumulated  by SNU would be passed on to other institutions. By then much of US assistance in higher  education went into classroom construction. However, the US and Korea realized that it was  necessary to rebuild and upgrade Korean medical education and medical sector to support  rehabilitation and development. As such, the FOA secured one single master contract with  the University of Minnesota to upgrade SNU in the fields of agriculture, engineering, and  medicine.37 The technical cooperation program included three main activities: the education and  training of Koreans in Minnesota, a counterpart program, and material assistance. So the  objective of the program was to send Korean instructors to the US to receive training at U  of M and then have US advisors sent to Korea to serve as “in house consultants” to assist  in the institution of American based organization, teaching methods, and medical systems  and practices. This was at the heart of the technical assistance cooperative project between  SNU and U of M under the ICA.  To ensure administrative simplicity, a master contract was signed between U of M and  ICA, which provided administrative and financial support. The contract included the scope  of technical activities to be performed by U of M such as 1) design and implementation  of the program was to be carried by U of M, 2) a course program for the deans of SNU  was to be included, 3) the staff and consultants to work in Korea, 4) U of M assessed the  buildings and equipments needs in Korea in consultation with SNU officials, 5) U of M  prepared a report with detailed findings and recommendations on the rehabilitation of SNU  for submission to ICA. The contract also specified that U of M would prepare and submit  to FOA semi-annual progress report and final report after the completion of the activities.  
Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 057
A key part of the cooperation was making sure that the leadership of the SNU were  educated and trained, basically to raise awareness amongst deans, so that they would be  in line and supportive of the long term goal of upgrading Korean medical education. This  was to make sure that the senior management would become agents of change instead of  obstacles to reform and progress. The first dean of the Medical College was sent to U of M  to receive an intensive 6-month program to study and observe the medical curriculum and  facilities, and to engage in discussions with U of M faculty (Lee, Wang-Joon, 2006, p39). This showed the commitment and focus put on changing the mindset of the top leadership  at SNU. This contract effectively gave U of M “substantial portion” of the design and  implementation of the technical assistance program on behalf of the US aid agency. Indeed,  U of M secured the contract on the condition that the ICA and Korean government would  not interfere at all on education related decisions, according to Lee Wang-Joon (2006, p40). Nearly all or 80% of the SNU medical staff had been sent to the US for training in the US  for a period of three months to four years so that they could return to Korea to upgrade the  medical education system, based on American standards. Basically, two groups of Korean  instructors and administrators were sent to US. <Table 3-7> shows the composition of SNU  faculties that participated in either short-term consultation or long-term degree program.  The first group (short-term consultation program) which largely consisted of senior faculty  that held administrative positions at SNU was supposed to be for 6-12 months to study and  observe US medical system and practices. The second group (long-term degree program)  consisted younger faculty who were expected to continue teaching and take up leadership  position in the future after returning from studying in the US. As such, the training period  for younger faculty was much more intensive and longer between one and three years.  However, many of the younger faculties ended up staying longer for up to four years as seen  in <Table 3-8>. As noted before, a key provision in the scope of the technical activities was  sending selected junior staffs or faculties at SNU to U of M for long-term degree program.  As seen in <Table 3-9>, large number of junior faculties participated in long-term degree  programs, many of whom were sent in 1955 and 1959. This is quite remarkable considering  the patriarchical culture and seniority based culture in Korea where junior faculty was  subordinate to senior faculty. Indeed, the technical program put focus on investing in junior  faculty, the future of Korea’s higher education.  Since the senior faculty was also trained to recognize the importance of instituting new  methods and practices, they were supportive of the junior faculty and did not stand in the  way of introducing new teaching methods. According to Lee Ho Wang (2005), who was one  of first junior faculty to participate in the degree program, believed that the program was  critical in facilitating the rapid adoption of new curriculum and teaching methods. Teaching  materials were directly taken from U of M without translation. Almost all of the curriculum  and examinations were based on U of M. Also, SNU faculty studying overseas were assured  of their position after returning to Korea, and were obligated to return to their position at  least for one year. The program was not limited to U of M; in fact some Koreans were able  to study in other institutions and countries, if appropriate to their studies.38 The contract also  specified that U of M would prepare and submit to FOA semi-annual progress report and  final report after the completion of the activities.  Table 3-24 | Composition of Technical Cooperation Programs: 1955-1960 Source: Lee (2006) Table 3-25 | Composition of Technical Cooperation Programs based on Duration:  Source: Lee (2006) - 6 4 13 23 Table 3-26 | Composition of Technical Cooperation Programs based on Seniority:  Source: Lee (2006) - - - 6 1 7 
Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 059
Under technical cooperation program, a team of faculty from U of M, and consultants  were sent to Korea to assist SNU in improving administration, teaching and curriculum.  The US advisors also assisted the SNU faculty and staffs in instituting new organizational  and administrative methods, and medical systems and practices. The experts also advised  SNU in the selection and uses of books, equipments and supplies in consultation with SNU.  To coordinate the technical program, a chief advisor which represented the U of M, resided  in Korea and was responsible for supervision of the performance of all activities. One of the  duties of the chief adviser was to coordinate the procurement of equipment by working with  each of the colleges in submitting formal requests that was prepared by the SNU faculty in  consultation with overall advisors of each college. Then this proposal was sent to the review  committee in U of M before being submitted for final approval by the ICA.  Moreover, an overall advisor was provided by U of M for each dean of the various  schools including agriculture, engineering, nursing, and medical, if requested by the SNU.  The overall advisor’s duty was to help in facilitating the goals of the technical assistance  program. The role of the advisors was to assist the SNU faculty in implementing new  American style medical system and practices, but also to monitor the performance and  progress. The chief advisor was also in charge of preparing and submitting a progress report  to FOA every six month. In addition, a final report was submitted upon completion of the  program by each of the advisors.  According to Gault, who was the overall advisor to the Medical School between August  1959 and August 1961, the role of the US advisors was more than providing advisory on  teaching and curriculum but also included as a show of support in providing motivation  and encouragement to the SNU faculty and the students (Lee, Wang-Joon, 2006, p101).  The US advisors a took hands off approach in assisting SNU but they also participated in  weekly meetings, delivered the lectures and advised on clinical practices, offered surgical  demonstrations and provided individual consultations to SNU staffs. As such the role of  advisor was to “assist and not displace” the SNU staffs. US approach of assisting SNU was  different from the Scandinavian approach which built a hospital, and provided all the staffs  and medical doctors to operate the hospital.  The impact of the technical assistance programs like the Minnesota Program on Korean  education and development has been the subject of many studies. Mason et al. (1980) writes:  “the most significant, and successful, involvement of American aid in education came with  the strengthening of undergraduate faculties and the development of graduate level program  in … agriculture, and medicine.” In a comprehensive study of US assistance on Korean  education, Dodge (1971) writes: “In higher education as a result of the US efforts, SNU’s  Colleges of Agriculture, Medicine, and Engineering were upgraded to the point where the  programs there would compare favorably to those of high ranking universities anywhere  in the world.” Indeed, the US aid administrators were also in high praise of the programs  which were assessed to have significantly supported Korea’s development, judging them  to be largely effective and beneficial. For example, nearly 50% of 676 Koreans out of a  total of 942 over four years that returned to Korea after receiving training were evaluated  as having produced outstanding results while 35% were assessed to be moderate and 15%  non-productive.  In a study of US assistance on Korean medical education, Wang-Joon Lee (2006) also  concluded that the program’s objectives were achieved successfully in upgrading Korean  higher education and the field of medicine in general. The program was hugely successful  in modernizing Korea’s medical education system in the sense that newly trained professors  helped to introduce modern methods and practices of medical education. Korea’s medical  education system underwent standardization based on American style system that replacing  the Japanese style system. Korea’s theoretical centered medical education was changed to a  clinical and experiment-driven system. Indeed, many of graduates at SNU Medical College  were  able  to  pass  the  US  Examination  of  Certification  for  Foreign  Medical  Graduates  (ECFMG) during the 1960s. The traditional didactic based teaching methods were replaced  by clinical, case-based education with more emphasis on practical training such as bed-side  practices. New practices in medicine were reformed or established such as anesthesiology,  radiology, pathology and so forth. In addition, an internship and resident training system  was adopted and medical research capacity was upgraded. Furthermore, a nursing school  and public health school were newly established. As the original planners of the program  had hoped that SNU could be a beacon of higher learning, modern standards and practices  and medical education spread very quickly once the newly trained SNU medical professors  returned to Korea. Much of the newly acquired knowledge and methods were disseminated  through academic associations, and lecture seminars. Indeed, many of the SNU medical  professors went on to hold prominent positions at other medical schools, thus facilitated the  spread of knowledge.  But the program, Lee (2006) argues, was in some ways a victim of its own success.  The program did not have the desired outcomes in the short-term, as the underdeveloped  healthcare system in Korea led to a mass overseas exodus of the newly trained medical  graduate students from SNU. The Korean healthcare sector did experience a mass exodus of  newly trained medical doctors, educated and qualified to international standards, left Korea  to find work overseas, largely to the US. Starting from 1956, the share of SNU medical  graduates immigrating to the US gradually increased before peaking in 1964, when nearly  60% of the graduating class taught at SNU immigrated to the US.
To the extent possible, several factors can be attributed to causing this “brain-drain” of  Korean medical practitioners. First, most medical doctors sought to operate private practices  and clinics. For instance, many doctors at SNU hospital were more interested in working  outside of the hospital and were not full time medical staffs. Moreover, western medicine  was still a relatively new method of treatment compared to traditional Asian medicine.  As such, hospitals were feared by Koreans as “places to die.” Moreover, Korea had not  developed enough economically in that it was still relatively poor countries and thus people  could not afford medical costs. Hospitals suffered from a low occupancy rate less than 50%  
Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 061
in 1960s. Also, Korea’s social safety net was woefully underdeveloped; in that there were  no medical insurance programs or measures to help pay for healthcare costs. Another factor  that accelerated this mass immigration was a change in US immigration policy. During the  late 1960s and early 1970s, the US implemented an immigration policy aimed at attracting  newly trained physicians due to a shortage of qualified physicians caused by the expansion  of Vietnam War. However, the US would reverse its immigration policy in the late 1970s,  which slowed the outflow of physicians from Korea. Around this time, social protection  systems were being introduced with the establishment of national health insurance system,  scope and size of which grew over time.  The high rate of migration to the US continued through the early 1970s before falling  sharply by the mid-1970s. Indeed, SNU Medical College was not the only institution that  experienced  high  migration  of  graduating  students  overseas,  as  seen  in  the  number  of  students that went to overseas as seen below.39 Table 3-27 | Demography of SNU Medical College Graduates during 1956-75 Graduates Overseas Other US (%) Graduates in Korea Deceased Graduates Overseas US (%) Other Graduates in Korea Deceased Source: Lee (2006, p188) Table 3-28 | Diaspora of Korean Medical Physicians (As of Nov. 15, 1974) Canada Japan Malaysia Jamaica Uganda Other Total Medical School Note: The data was prepared by Berglund based on the alumni information from medical schools. Source: Lee (2006, p189)  Finally, a review of qualitative reports prepared by implementers and participants of the  Minnesota Program also show that many assessed that the program generally had a positive  impact on Korean higher education and medical sector. An American nurse that acted as an  advisor to the nurses in the SNU College of Medicine and hospital observed that the attitude  of doctors changed after studying in the US, the status of nurses was improving along with  status of women, and doctors recognized that is was more efficient for nurses to manage the  hospital wards.40 Moreover, the opportunity for medical staff to study and observe nurses in  the US had greater impact on changing the status of nurses as a profession, as nurses were  considered low status and servants of doctors in Korea at the time.

Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 063
The individual evaluations of the Korean professors who studied at U of M by the faculty  of U of M who taught and acted as their academic advisors in most part concluded that the  Korean students studying in the US would have benefited from being in class and learning  by observing, though their participation was very limited. Overall, the faculty advised that  most students indicated interest and some level of aptitude, or understanding of their subject  and studies. Most students regularly attended classes and on-site industrial tours. However,  the U of M faculty stressed that it would be impossible to make any objective or even formal  evaluation of student performance, since only a handful actually took exams and wrote a  thesis, thereby receiving full credit and a degree. The faculty members noted that most of  the Korean students did not complete a thesis let alone a degree. In fact, many Koreans  did not participate in class discussions nor take exams to qualify for grades instead choose  to audit the classes, for which the advisors attributed to cultural and language differences.  In particular, the evaluations cited the weak English proficiency of Korean students as a  serious problem, resulting in a “language barrier.” This made productive discussions with  students difficult and providing any objective evaluation of how much students benefited  impossible.  Cultural  differences  between  faculty  and  students  were  also  often  cited  as  possible barriers to learning.
As  another  illustrative  comparison,  assistance  to  improve  medical  services  and  medical standards of Korea’s public health and medical care system was carried out by  UNKRA. Under UNKRA’s program, a National Medical Center (NMC) was built through  a collaborative work between the Korean Government and three Scandinavian countries,  Norway,  Sweden,  and  the  Dutch.  Besides  the  construction  of  a  new  medical  facility,  medical personnel necessary to staff and operate the medical center were dispatched by  the donor countries. Initially, the Scandinavian countries had dispatched medical staff to  Korea under the UN flag as part of war relief efforts during the Korean War to provide  badly needed medical services and treatment to wounded soldiers and civilians. Soon after  the War, the Korean government requested the UN to continue the program of providing  medical treatment and training. Throughout the 1960s, the NMC grew to become one of  Korea’s top medical institutions. Unlike private hospitals, the NMC saw a large number of  patients since it was a public health program and therefore allowed patients to seek medical  care who otherwise could not have afforded to pay health costs.
However, the NMC continued to be largely staffed and operated by expats from the  donor countries, totaling 367 foreigners (139 Norway, 134 Sweden, and 94 Denmark) for  10 years. Once their contract period ended and they returned home, the medical center  experienced a gradual decline in the quality of care and facilities. Its slow demise led to  the takeover of its management by the Korean government, which sought to reform it.  However, the situation did not improve under the management of the government, as the  NMC continued to experience deterioration in quality of care and facilities due to lack of  investments and reduced pay scale for physicians. The uncompetitive pay scale has led to a  decline in morale among the physicians, many of whom have sought work elsewhere, and  difficulties in retaining and recruiting well-qualified physicians.
Part of the military assistance was used for technical assistance in educating and training  Korean military personnel. As seen in Table 8, the number of Korean military servicemen  from all branches of the military that were sent to the US for education and training was  considerable. The number of trainees began to increase during the Korean War and totaled  nearly 11,607 by 1960. The military technical assistance programs contributed significantly  to orienting Korean military personnel in modern warfare and technical skills. In the process,  many were also exposed to new and modern ways of administration and management. It is  reasonable to assume that the technical and managerial know-how gained by the military  servicemen, many of whom went on to work in the public and private sector, had contributed  to capacity building by upgrading the level of Korea’s manpower in general.41 Table 3-29 | Technical Assistance for Korean Military Personnel - - - 38 85 168 229 170 102 162 132 205 1,291 - - - 10 13 90 352 368 621 229 525 556 2,764 - - - 2 16 32 20 36 26 76 196 114 518 Note: * 86% were officers while 14% (1,592) were enlisted men  Source: Armed Forces and Nation Building, Military Defense Annual Statistics  
Chapter 3 Aid and Development in Korea • 065
2011 Modularization of Korea’s Development Experience Impact of Foreign Aid on Korea’s Development 
Chapter 4
Land Reform Land Reform Notwithstanding the massive amounts of economic and military assistance, the single  biggest policy accomplishment in the early years of Korea’s development was as we argue  land reform, the redistribution of land to the poor. Korea only 70 years ago was largely  an agrarian society in which 75% of the population was in the agricultural sector; a fact  largely forgotten because of Korea’s rapid industrialization as seen below. Land reform  together  with  the  divestiture  of  “vested  properties”  (properties  formerly  owned  by  the  Japanese vested in the US Military Government, acquired under the rules of war), reset  Korea’s institutional arrangement. In a short span of two years, Korea went from being  largely a semi-feudalistic agrarian society, dominated by landlords, to a land tenure system  made of equally free and landed farmers. Land reform, divestiture of vested properties, and  destruction of war, conspired to level the playing field by flattening the income distribution  curb, resulting in a relatively high degree of equality or “equal distribution of poverty” not  seen in many countries.  (Unit: 1,000) (North & South Korea)* (South Korea)** % 73.9 1.5 1.5 1.5 7.5 4.0 1.2 7.1 1.8 % 47.4 1.4 1.2 12.4 12.2 14.1 2.8 3.7 4.8 Note:  *1939 figures included all population of all ages, active and non-active, in both South and North Korea.  **1969 figures show only active population employed by industry in South Korea.
Source: Morrow and Sherper (1970, p3) The  most  immediate  and  prominent  effect  of  land  reform  was  reforming  Korea’s  traditional  and  oppressive  tenant  farming  system. According  to  Dwight  Perkins  (1969,  p104), tenant farming system also lowered agricultural production in China. Tenant farming  was legally abolished. The redistribution of income between tenant farmers and landlords  helped to stabilize the income of farmers who had to pay over half of their production as rent.  Besides achieving its major social, economic, and political objectives of reducing political  and social unrest and improving the economic conditions of farmers, Pak (1966) concludes  that “land reform contributed to establishing the foundation for political democracy and  social modernization in Korean rural society.”  After  its  liberation  in  1945,  Korea’s  land  ownership  structure  was  dominated  by  landlords, in which according to Morrow&Sherper (1970) the top 4% owned or managed  50% of the arable land and most of the farming was done by hired labor or tenant farmers,  who were mainly “share croppers living at subsistence levels.” A significant amount of land  was held by Korean landlords, but the best farming lands were owned by the Japanese land  companies. The farming conditions are worsened by Korea’s physical constraints; in that,  only 20% or about 2 million hectares of total land were arable in 1949. At the time, Korea’s  farm population totaled 14.4 million or nearly 72% of the population. There were about  
Chapter 4 Land Reform • 069
2.5 million farm households which resulted in an average of 0.8 hectare of farm land per  household. The dearth of arable land led to double cropping.  Table 4-2 | Farm Households by Size of “Management Scale” Prior to Land Reform Size (Hectare) Size (Hectare) % of Farm  Households Source: Morrow & Sherper (1970) The salient trends during Japanese colonial period (1919 to 1945) was that the number  of tenant farmers sharply increased and the concentrated of land ownership increased. Most  of the arable land was still in the hands of Korean landlords while Japanese owned about  13.4% of total arable land during its colonization according to historians. It was not until  sometime after the Russo-Japanese War in 1904 that the Japanese landowners began to  appear. Seeking to profit on the exporting of rice to Japan which was a highly lucrative  enterprise at the time, many had initially acquired and cultivated large plots of land that  were uninhabited and undeveloped. Under the tenant system, most of the land (over 80%)  was  still  owned  by  Korean  landlords,  though  Japanese  landlords  became  increasingly  more prominent as their numbers rose rapidly during Japanese colonization. The Japanese  landlords still owned a smaller share of land relative to Koreans, but the share they did  own was some of the most fertile regions such as Cholla Province where the introduction  of modern irrigation systems and the consolidation of smaller plots of farmland raised  agricultural productivity.
In contrary, Korea’s manufacturing was dominated by the Japanese, which controlled  78% of all manufacturing and 87% of all mining businesses (Lee, 2002). More specifically,  Japanese industrialists owned 68% of the 2,682 firms with capital estimated to be greater  than 10 thousand Korean Won as of August 1940.  Part-Owners Source: Pak, Ki Hyuk (1966) from “Land Reform in South Korea” by Morrow and Sherper (1970).
By 1945, it is estimated that nearly 50% to 75% of the farm land was operated by tenants.  From 1900 to the time of Korea’s liberation, the number of landlords that owned large plots  of land had steadily increased. By some estimates, the number of landlords who owned  more than 50 Chongbos (1 Chongbo = 9,917m2) of land increased from 1,899 in early 1910s  to 3,048 in 1942, as seen in Table 33. As more of Korea’s land came under the system of  landlords during the colonial period, farmers were increasingly subjugated to the tenant- farming system. By the late 1930s, 55.7% of all arable land was controlled by landlords  while the rest was owned by small farming households as seen below. Tenant farmers had  to pay rent that was generally between 50% and 90% of their output, or about 40 to 70%  rent net of inputs and maintenance costs, which were supplied by the landlords. According  to Pak (1966), tenure terms were often only for one year in some parts of Korea, in some  cases even less, while landlords extracted additional rents and unfairly exploited farmers.  During WWII, Korean farmers had to pay a greater share of production for taxes while  their living standards continued to decrease. According to Morrow & Sherper (1970), the  unequal distribution of land, the dire economic situation of farmers, and growing population  pressure worsened by the lack of arable land, led to widespread poverty and social instability,  making Korea ripe for land reform.

Chapter 4 Land Reform • 071
Korean Japan Source: Morrow & Sherper (1970) Table 4-5 | Owner-Tenant Distribution of Land Before 1945 Part-owners Source: Ban, Moon and Perkins (1980), Rural Development p284 System Before a system of property rights was instituted, some historians assert that most of the  land would likely have been owned by a few Korean landlords who did not keep official  titles of ownership during the Yi Dynasty before Korea was formally colonized by Japan.  Ownership rights were on historical basis prior to Japan’s colonization. The land survey  conducted by the Japanese colonial government during 1910 – 1918 essentially formalized  the land tenure structure in Korea. The land survey served as the basis for establishing  a system of land registration. Besides establishing property locations and rights of land  ownership, the land survey also used to appraise land values for tax purposes and map  topographic  and  terrain  features.  The  land  was  registered  and  ownership  rights  were  recorded based on a “reporting system.” As Pak (1966) writes: “Under the reporting system,  the nominal person who reports himself as the owner of land was acknowledged as the  owner of the land.” Under the reporting system, the owners of land were registered and official records or  titles issued that included various information including size, type, and location of land,  the owner’s name, and land value. Though a topic of much debate, it is believed that the  Japanese  colonial  government  not  only  registered  the  land  but  also  acknowledged  the  ownership rights of most Korean landowners.42 The land survey was presumably thorough  considering that it was reportedly carried over eight years and covered a total of 4.8 million  hectares of land and employed some 3,400 men.  After the land survey, fairly accurate and reliable cadastral mapping had been completed  and ownership maps were available at the national level. The rights of property owners  were legally formulized in 1912 when the Civil Law was enacted. The land registry system  instituted by the Japanese established a legal basis for ownership, effectively abolishing the  historical basis for property claims. It also instituted mechanisms for transfers of title as  new deeds could be drawn and recorded in the land register.  From the day the US Forces landed in Korean on September 8, 1945, the US intention  was to achieve social and economic stability in a country that was in chaos and economic  production and flow of trade was seriously disrupted. As discussed above, Korea’s land  tenure  structure  was  characterized  by  high  tenancy  and  large  number  of  landlords. As  Morrow  and  Sherper  (1971)  write:  “The  farmers  paid  high  rents,  largely  to  absentee  landlords who made up a small but wealthy aristocracy. They suffered severely from the  creation of many small operating units under Japanese rule, forced delivery of agricultural  products and mobilization of labor during World War II.” In October 1945, the US declared  its intention to implement land reform and to remake Korea’s traditional land-tenant system  Ordinance No. 9. Indeed, the US had also undertaken land reforms in Japan in 1946, which  it wanted also carry out in Korea. (Lee, 2002, p77-78).
To provide immediate relief to the dire economic situation of farmers, the US Military  Government immediately pledged that the land lost under the Japanese would be returned to  the tenant farmers. As it would take some time to implement a land reform program, the US  Military Government issued “Act. No. 9” as a transitional measure. Morrow and Sherper  (1970) summarize the contents of Act. No. 9: “tenant farm-rent should be paid in kind, but  could be paid in cash; the amount of rent payment on tenant farmland could not exceed  
Chapter 4 Land Reform • 073
one-third of the production; unilateral cancellation of the tenant contract could not be done;  and new contracts for tenant farm rent exceeding one-third of production could not be  concluded.”43 This act put a limit on tenant rents and improved the tenure terms of farmers.  Dispute having some effect on improving the economic lot of farmers, it was apparent a  more “comprehensive and profound reform was required.” After  Korea’s  liberation  from  Japan,  the  US  quickly  redistributed  the  land  formerly  owned by the Japanese, which as it turned out was politically and economically far easier  thing to do. Under the rules of war, the US acquired about 280,000 hectares of land formerly  owned by the Japanese, which was legally vested in US government. The US Military  Government became the owner of all former Japanese property by owning the New Korea  Company valued at 100 million Won. The New Korea Company owned 280,394 hectares  of land, about 13.5% of the total arable land, on which 587,974 tenant farmers operated on,  effectively making it Korea’s largest land owner.  In 1946, Arthur C. Bunce of Iowa State College led a group of economists to Korea  to assist in drafting a land reform program.44 Under the US Military Government, a land  reform program was drafted by “Land Reform Law Drafting Committee” for divesting  former  Japanese  property.  In  1947,  Korea-US  Joint  Sub-committee  was  established  to  evaluate the land reform program drafted by the committee. In parallel, an alternative draft  of the law was prepared by the Industry and Labor Committee of the National Assembly,  Korea’s legislative body. The proposals for land reform from both committees were used  to draft the Land Reform Law in 1947, which failed to pass the assembly after several  revisions. By early 1948, the Land Reform Law was due to strong opposition from “certain  power groups.” Many of the members of the assembly argued that: “a measure as significant  as land reform should be handled by the New Constitutional Government…and not the  liberation Military Government.” The land reform program faced great opposition from the landed elite who were politically  influential and well represented in the National Assembly. Indeed, some members of the  Legislative Committee of the Interim South Korean government refused to even deliberate  the land reform bill in the national assembly.45 But the US was also apprehensive, having  a mixed and unclear view of land reform, despite having done so in Japan as part of post- WWII reconstruction efforts. The idea of land reform was seen as near sacrilege, going  against  the  cardinal  institution  of  private  property  rights.  To  some Americans,  it  even  “smacked of communism.” But the potential costs from the social economic fallout and  the threat of communism spreading particularly in rural areas, outweighed the benefits  of keeping to ideology. North Korea had already implemented land reform.46 Communist  propaganda was spreading among farmers in South Korea, who heard that farmers in the  north were “given” land.47 Realizing the political difficulty of enacting land reform, the US  government pushed to distribute the land formerly owned by the Japanese.
On  March  1948,  the  US  Military  Government  dissolved  the  New  Korea  Company  and established the National Land Administration under ordinance No. 173 issued by the  Korea Interim Legislative Assembly to control over disposal of ex-Japanese holdings and  regulation of procedures regarding such sales of land. It set a limit of two hectares for the  land distributed. The actual amount of land redistributed was about 245,554 hectares, or  91.4% of the land available for distribution. The land was distributed based on the following:  “1) farmers already cultivating the farmland, 2) farmers, agricultural laborers and refugees  from North Korea or abroad and 3) experienced farmers living near the farmland.” Most of  the land was allocated to farmers already farming on the land, which was planned on the  part of the US to prevent misallocation of land or rent seeking. As Morrow and Sherper  (1970) write: “Every precaution was taken to ensure that farmers knew he did not have to  pay a bribe to any person to get the land he had been farming.” Payment for the purchase  of formerly Japanese owned land was to be made in kind and the price of the land was set  at three times “standard production.” The farmers had to make principal payments for 15  years with no interest cost. Over the 15 year period, installment payment “was only 20% of  the long-time average annual yield for the farm.”48 Title of the land was transferred to the  farmer and the deed was registered in the land registry. Moreover, the conditions of the sales  also included provisions which restricted farmers from selling, leasing, or mortgaging their  land until full payment was made or before 10 years from date of purchase.  After  the  Republic  of  Korea  was  established  on August  15,  1948,  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture and Forestry drafted a land reform law which was approved by the cabinet on  February 2, 1949, and sent to the National Assembly. In parallel, another bill was drafted  by the Industry and Labor Committee, which was also submitted to the Assembly. After  
Chapter 4 Land Reform • 075
significant revisions, the Farmland Reform Bill was passed by the assembly on April 29,  1949, and it was promulgated on June 21, 1949. The Ministry declared that land reform  would be implemented within a year.49 The Revised Farmland Reform Law (Law No. 108)  was promulgated and implemented on March 10, 1950, which set limit of three hectares and  set the price and compensation of distributed land at 150% of production and the issuance  of securities to sellers.
The principal agency in charge of implementing the land reform program was the Bureau  of Farmland Administration under the MAF. Korea’s central bank was authorized by the  Korean  government  to  issue  land  securities  or  bonds,  while  industrial  and  agricultural  banks acted as agencies for placing and servicing the land bonds. The objectives of the  Land Reform Law were clear: “…on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Korea  pertaining to farm lands: to improve the living conditions of farmers, to keep the balance of,  and to develop the national economy by increasing agricultural productivity.” The  land  subject  to  government  purchase  for  redistribution  included:  “1)  farmland  owned by individuals other than farmers, 2) farmland not owner-cultivated, 3) farmland  exceeding the upper ceiling of three hectares, and 4) land not cultivated for perennial plants  beyond three hectares.” Priority was given to the following: “1) farm households currently  cultivating farmland subject to distribution, 2) farm households cultivating extremely small  areas in comparison to cultivating capacity, 3) bereaved families of martyrs, 4) agricultural  laborers having a capability to farm and 5) famers returned from abroad. The key terms  and conditions of the purchase and sales distributed under land reform include: 1) land for  distribution was valued based on the government purchase price of 150% of the “standard  production” 2) land owners were compensated with government issued securities with a  government guarantee, that the securities could be invested in industrial stocks or redeemed  in cash. 3) Repayment by farmers to the government was 150% of “standard production”  made by yearly installments spread over five years or payment in advance of the whole or  part of the purchase price.  The land reform program sought to achieve multiple objectives in redistributing the land,  essentially based on the land-to-tiller’s (耕者有田) principle. The economic objectives of  land reform were to improve agricultural productivity and income of famers by dismantling  the oppressive tenant farming system, to encourage reinvestment, and to provide incentives  through ownership of land and production. A major political objective of the land reform  was “to lay a foundation for democratic rural society.” The oppressive terms of the tenant  farming and widespread poverty in rural areas was fueling communism which reached  a  fever  pitch  soon  after  Korea’s  liberation.  Though  the  presence  of  the  US  Military  Government helped to establish some semblance of political order and to dissipate growing  overtones of communism, much of it went underground. Socially, land reform sought to  secure social stability by abolishing tenant farming and mitigating class conflict between  tenants and landlords.  The net effects from both the distribution of land formerly owned by the Japanese under  the US and Land Reform program under the Korean government were significant and far- reaching. A total of 245,554 ha of arable land formerly owned by Japanese was redistributed  which  was  13.4%  of  all  arable  land  as  seen  below.  The  distribution  of  Japanese  land  benefited an estimated 727,632 households which received an average of 0.337 ha of land  as seen below. The land tenure structure was significantly changed resulting in: “1) share  increase in full-owner operators 2) a reduction in part owner operators 3) a consequent  reduction in full tenancy and 4) an indirect effect of accelerating the trend to smaller farms  and a subsequent consolidation of very small farmers into medium sized farms.” Table 4-6 | Farm Household and Land Distributed by Land Reform Amount of land Number of  households Average land  per household (Unit: Ha.) Source: Pak, Ki Hyuk (1966) from “Land Reform in South Korea” by Morrow and Sherper (1970).
Table 4-7 | Distribution of Land rented by Tenants  Source: Ban, Moon and Perkins (1980), Rural Development, p286 (Unit: Chongbo) 
Chapter 4 Land Reform • 077
6. Vested Properties, Land Reform Program, and War  Besides land formerly owned by the Japanese, the US Military Government also took  custody of physical property that belonged to the Japanese including businesses, factories,  buildings,  equipment,  inventory,  homes,  and  other  physical  properties,  which  made  up  Korea’s industrial base. The US took possession of 166,301 properties including 3,555  businesses, 70% of which were in manufacturing such as machinery, chemical, and light  manufacturing. The properties were subsequently turned over to the American Office of the  Property Custodian (AOPC).  Since most of the capital or wealth in Korea was in the land and in the manufacturing  businesses  while  the  labor  was  in  the  rural  agricultural  sector,  it  was  hoped  that  land  reform would create industrial capital by compensating landlords who had become wealthy  exploiting tenant farmers and by freeing up labor in rural areas for urban industrial sectors.  The government compensated land owners by issuing government backed securities that  could be invested in business enterprises by the land sellers or redeemable in cash. The  securities invested in businesses was intended to channel capital from sale of land into  industrialization by giving land sellers priority in the public sale of formers Japanese owned  plants. The figure below charts the transaction.

Figure 4-1 | Formation of Industrial Capital via Land Reform
Land Owners Government back securities paid in annual installments over 5 years or 30% of land value Tenant Farmers Payment for land equal to 150% of annual production paid in annual installments over 5years.
Securities redeemed in cash or Invested in Japanese plants Government Sale of Vested Enterprises (formerly owned by Japanese) The US plan was to divest the Japanese properties; however, it faced many difficulties,  even more than when it redistributed the Japanese owned land. Though it did manage to  divest some of the properties such as homes and small businesses fairly quickly, the US  essentially failed to make any meaningful progress. The whole process turned into a messy  affair. After the Japanese departed, the factories and businesses sat idle with no managers  and technicians to operate the factories, and no raw materials to produce goods. Even though  managers were brought in to operate the businesses, many of the businesses were looted,  their equipment and materials sold for cash. It got to a point where people were saying that  “the factories are empty but the bellies of managers are full” (Lee, 2002, p101). Frustrated  and unable to make progress, the US turned over the properties to the newly established  Korean government led by President Rhee in August 1948.
Table 4-8 | Number of Vested Firms Formerly Owned by Japanese Metal Machine Chemical Electricity Ceramics Textile Food Wood Printing Source: Lee (2002, p97) - - 7 - - - 4 - - 
Chapter 4 Land Reform • 079
The vested properties, in effect, were nationalized by being turned over to the Korean  government. Given that the properties were in the hands of the government, it was seen  as a huge potential financial windfall for the government’s coffer but also a lightning rod  for anti-communist critics. So the Rhee government wanted to re-privatize the properties  with no delay (Lee, 2002). In December 1949, the Law of Divestiture of Vested Properties  was enacted, which served as the legal basis for the divestiture or re-privatization program.  Meanwhile, the US continued to press the Rhee government to finish the job in redistributing  the rest of the land, which faced great opposition from the landed elite and politicians.  To induce landowners to sell their land for redistribution, the Rhee government tried to  persuade the landowners to sell their land to the government, and then, use the proceeds  of selling their land to buy the vested properties the government owned. Basically, the  government was trying to sell the idea of becoming industrial capitalists to the landowners.  To swap the land for properties, the government issued securities or bonds to the land  owners. The face value of securities was expressed in terms of agricultural products produced  from the land and converted at the current government purchase price and compensation  with securities was made by yearly installments spread over five years with the government  paying one fifth the face value each year in cash. The seller could redeem 30% of the  established value every year. To speed up the re-privatization process, the Rhee government  revised the Law by adding additional provisions to induce as many landlords to sell their  land as possible. First, the rights to the properties or businesses had to be held by multiple  owner-managers instead of one single owner-manager. Second, half of the rights of the  businesses had to be held by former landlords based on the recommendation of the Minister  of Agriculture. Third, new managers given rights to the business, had to a landlord when  an existing owner-manager left a business. In effect, the government was trying to induce  multiple landowners to sell the rights to their land for the right s to own-manage one of the  businesses. However, the government’s plan faced many difficulties, and ultimately failed  to meet its objectives. In trying to convince the landlords, the government realized they were  not ready or willing to let go of their land in exchange for a chance to become an industrial  capitalist. Indeed, the businessmen traditionally occupied the lower rung of Korea’s social  ladder whereas the landowners sat on the top rung. Moreover, the government wanted to  buy the land cheap relative to the price it was selling the businesses to maximize revenues  from the sales of properties and to minimize the cost of redistributing the land. At the time,  the average purchase price of a land was 10 thousand won, while the average sale price  of a property was 1 million won. Regardless of the wide price difference, the government  believed that many landowners would form a group to pool their money to buy a property,  similar to issuing equity shares of a company to multiple investors (Lee, 2002).
The government did achieve its goal of buying land at a relatively cheap price; however,  it still faced the problem of having to sell the properties to the private sector which was  not going well. This forced the government to lower the sale price of the businesses at a  steep discount to their market prices. In the end, most of the properties were estimated to  have been sold at pre-1945 book values to former managers or employees, in the process  failing to convince the wealthy land owners to sell their land and take a shot at being  industrial capitalists initially planned. As many of the buyers had little capital, most of the  acquisitions were financed using loans with a small down payment of 10 percent of the sale  price. The rest was to be paid in installments over fifteen years. But the real financial burden  of paying for the properties was never high due to persistent high inflation, and in many  cases, loan repayments were not even enforced. In 1958, after the properties were sold,  37.7% of the outstanding loans had not even been repaid (Kang, 1996). It is not difficult to  imagine that corruption and rent seeking behavior under the Rhee government had resulted  in the business being given away basically for free as was the case in the privatization of  banks. Indeed, the process of privatizing the banks50 shows the difficult nature of the efforts  to divest the properties and the rampant corruption in the process. In fact, the conditions  of sales were relatively stricter compared to the sale of manufacturing properties due to  the specialized nature of the banking industry. A cap was placed to limit the ownership  share of banks per individual investor. Also, investors were required to make one lump-sum  payment on the shares. The government also set a floor on the price of bank shares based  on its own evaluation of assets. Once the ownership of shares was transferred, investors  were prohibited from selling the shares for two years. (Samsung Office of the President,  1988, p142). After the procedures and conditions of sales of bank shares were established,  a series of auctions were held, totaling 6 rounds between November 1954 to early 1956.  The auctions attracted the bidders in the first and second round, however no sales were  transacted as bidders did not find the prices attractive. The remaining rounds did not attract  any bidders. Due to the poor result, the Monetary Board at Bank of Korea recommended  that the conditional sales be loosened by easing the restrictions on the share of ownership  and allowing payment of shares in installment. As a result, the shares of banks were sold  to private investors thereby ending the privatization.51 Besides the more relaxed conditions  of sales of bank shares, the fact that investors could finance their investment through bank  loans may have caused the concentration of banks shares in the hands of a few investors.  Through the privatization, many banks ended up being acquired by a few large industrialists,  who subsequently used those banks predominantly to fund their own operations. According  to Ahn (1993, p272), nearly over 50% of banks’ total loans were lent to the companies  owned by the major shareholders of the banks. This led many government officials to view  the privatization a failure in the sense the public assets were given away to enrich a few. In  
Chapter 4 Land Reform • 081
the next few decades, the government often used this experience as a rationale to slow down  the privatization and tighten control over the privatized banks. As seen in both cases, the  government was forced to loosen the conditions and procedures to facilitate the divestiture  of properties and privatization of banks. In the process, significant windfalls were realized  as acquirers were able to purchase the properties at deep discounts. The process also became  mired in corruption due to the linkage between the government and business. Indeed, the  process had created political capitalists instead of industrial capitalists.  But all was not lost. The government did succeed in convincing land owners to sell  their land, which was subsequently redistributed. By 1952, the government purchased and  distributed nearly 331,766 hectares of land as seen below, nearly 70-80% of land that was  planned for redistribution, to farmers. Aside redistributing much of land formerly owned  by landlords to farmers, the government’s efforts aimed at securing a financial windfall  for its coffers and a more fair distribution of income and wealth had been all but a failure.  The landlords were paid for their land with government backed securities while a class of  enterprising businessmen had acquired businesses and banks practically for free. But the  even hand of history would deal Korea a more just outcome.  Just before land reform was initiated in 1950, civil war broke out on the Korean peninsula  with invasion of North Korea. Despite the war, the Korean government proceeded with  reform after Seoul was taken back in September 1950, as it wanted to raise war funds  through sale of vested enterprises, to prevent a peasant revolt, and to use the rice collected  as payment as war provisions. By 1951, the government had issued securities to 48,264 land  owners. Land reform impacted considerable amount of land in Korea and farm households.  A total of 577,320 or about 1/3 of all arable land were redistributed which affected about  1,646,180, about 2/3 of all farm households. The average amount of land redistributed to  each household averaged 0.35 ha, as seen below. Many landlords with small holdings went  bankrupt after the land reform as 84% were receiving payments in rice spread over 5 years.  Since the amount received were so small, little industrial capital could be formed from the  income of landlords. The hyperinflation, effectively, making all debt worthless including  the notes held by the former land owners.
The war had left in its wake total economic and human destruction. Little had survived  the brutality of the war. A countless number of people were killed or went missing, and  most physical structures and properties were damaged or destroyed. The Korean War had  flattened the distribution of Korea’s income and wealth, wiping out much of the capital,  ill gotten or not, that was accumulated in the preceding years, leaving behind a relatively  “equal distribution of poverty.” Everyone was poor and the playing field was leveled, the  immediate and lasting economic consequences of which have yet to be fully appreciated.  The effects in the rural sector were immediate; tenant farming had been all but abolished,  significantly raising the income of farmers. The reduction of landlords result in a relatively  high degree of equality was achieved in the rural sector, which was not seen in many  countries. This led to social and economic. Before land reform, nearly half of the farmers’  annual production was used for rents while every family member had to supply their labors  to work on the farms. As such farm households could not afford the money or time to send  their children to schools. By 1947, the share of population 15 years and older with middle  and high school education was only for 4.4% and those with college education was only  0.6%. The benefits of land reforms to farm households can be seen below, which examines  household expenditure before and after the land reform. As of 1965, household expenditure  in education doubled from 4.5% to 10.9% of total household expenditure, implying that  farmers’ income was enough to send their children to schools.52 The huge economic payoffs  of an educated and healthy population, the bedrock of Korea’s industrialization, cannot be  over emphasized.  Table 4-9 | Comparison of Household Expenditures Before Land Reform and 1965 Education Medical Source: Pak, Ki Hyuk (1966) from “Land Reform in South Korea” by Morrow and Sherper (1970).
Because the farmland units were generally small to begin with and land reform had  basically  divided  larger  units  of  land  into  smaller  units,  the  results  of  the  reform  on  agricultural productivity likely had a negative effect in the long run. Though landed farmers  could accrue the fruits of their labor to themselves, the small scale of farming units and  lack of infrastructure and supporting institutions (farmer associations for mobilizing credit  and supplies) in the agricultural sector resulted in lower productivity.53 Indeed, the share  of farmers owned less than 1 ha of land increased from 74.5% in 1947 to 79.1% in 1953.  Farming became much more labor-intensive due to the small-size of farm lands.

Chapter 4 Land Reform • 083
Size of Farms  Source: Pak, Ki Hyuk (1966) from “Land Reform in South Korea” by Morrow and Sherper (1970) The lasting effects of land reform on Korea’s development prospects are as profound as  hard to elucidate. A relatively equal distribution of income and wealth meant that economic  and  political  power  was  not  concentrated.  Had  power  rested  within  a  few  hands,  it  is  hard to imagine if the subsequent development policies of Park Chung-Hee such as clean  government, tax reform, and rural development, which set the stage for Korea’s broad- based rapid development, could have been possible had the state or other self-interested  group been an obstacle to development.  Astute  political  scientists  have  gone  further  to  argue  that  the  equity  among  farmers  allowed them to form unity and cooperation that would not be possible with high inequality  and class conflict. This sense of solidarity among the rural sector, scholars argue, would  serve as the basis for rural community development programs implemented in Korea during  the 1970s.
2011 Modularization of Korea’s Development Experience Impact of Foreign Aid on Korea’s Development 
Chapter 5
Taking Ownership Taking Ownership Taking Ownership Under the dire circumstances, getting development going in Korea was never going to  be easy, but the failures of the Syngman Rhee government that led to rent-seeking behavior  and distortions had become an obstacle to economic reform and progress. Corruption in  government was rampant; bureaucrats fell under the influence of politicians and businessmen.  The privatization of vested properties that the US military government had taken procession  of from Japan was badly handled. The properties which included manufacturing plants were  auctioned off unfairly to industrialists at deep discounts. By the late 1950s, the signs of  Korea becoming too aid-dependent were emerging. The large amounts of aid, which were  largely commodities, suppressed agriculture prices and distorted the incentives of farmers.  Since Korea’s growth early on was fueled by aid-induced consumption, a drop in US aid  correlated with a fall in Korea’s GDP growth. Korea’s consumption-driven growth and  artificially overvalued currency made the economy susceptible to high inflation and any  attempt to keep macro stability difficult.
Figure 5-1 | Influence of Foreign Aids in 1950s: Share of Foreign Aids in Total  Imports and Total Government Revenue Share of Aids In Total Gov’t Revenue Share of Aids In Total Imports′ Source: Lee (2002).  Against this background, it surprised no one when social unrest and public outcries led  to the removal of the Syngman Rhee government, and the subsequent muted US response to  the taking of power by a military general.54 Korea came under the authoritarian leadership  of Park Chung-Hee who had taken power through a bloodless coup after Rhee Syungman  was forced out of power. Under the strong leadership of Park Chung-Hee, corruption in  government was cleaned up and Korea had taken ownership of its development process.  The government was no longer an obstacle but a central figure in implementing reforms and  economic policies. Soon after Park Chung-Hee took power, the government systematically  implemented  tax  reform  and  took  apart  the  government-business  apparatus  of  crony  capitalism. After the tax reforms in 1966, tax revenues grew rapidly, doubling to average  about 17% as a share of GNP in 1975, after fluctuating at about 8% and experiencing a  declining trend in the early 1960s. This led to a sound fiscal base that allowed Korea to  maintain macroeconomic stability; to secure foreign borrowings to finance industrialization;  and to implement social and economic policies for broad social benefits like the Saemaul  Movement. It shows how Korea took ownership of its development and addressed widespread  government  failure  (corruption)  by  changing  behavior  within  government.  Moreover,  President Park placed Korea’s industrialists under state arrest on charges of corruption and  bribery in their acquisition of vested properties and dismissed top government officials or  
Chapter 5 Taking Ownership • 087
sent them on two-week training courses.55 According to Hoff (2000), “he then personally  monitored the performance of the economic bureaucrats and shifted them from one bureau  to another quickly, so that they could not develop corruption networks.” The implications  of the anti-corruption campaign under President Park go beyond just a cleaner government;  it meant that the government, once an obstacle to reform, could now play a central role in  coordinating more efficient outcomes and addressing market failures.
It is a well known fact that Korea’s rapid development was financed largely by foreign  savings but the exact nature of how Korea, aid-dependent country could secure foreign  borrowings in the first place to finance its industrialization is less known.56 The table below  shows Korea’s high dependence on foreign savings to finance its development. This is much  higher compared to Taiwan which was able to mobilize the domestic capital brought over  by Chinese nationals.  Table 5-1 | Korean Investment and Savings Source: Cho and Kim (1997), Lee (2002) To industrialize, Korea had to make capital investments; it had to import equipment,  which required foreign currency. Needless to say, domestic savings was low in the early  stages of development and domestic capital markets were non-existent. Moreover, Korea  had little foreign currency receipts as its export base remained small and it lacked a foreign  currency reserve.
Wanting to pursue industrialization but lacking foreign currency, President Park freed the  industrialists that were arrested for corruption on the condition that they go out and secure  foreign loans to finance capital investments. Subsequently, a delegate of top businessmen  went on an international road-show to drum-up foreign investors; one group led by Pyung  Chul Yi (Founder of Samsung) went to the US while the other group led by Chung Rym  Lee (Founder of Korea Petrochemical Industry) went to Europe. But their efforts proved  futile, being able to only secure a small amount of foreign loans. Not even the government’s  legislation of the Foreign Loan Repayment Guarantee Act in 1962 did much to induce  foreign borrowings.57 By this time, total US assistance began to decline and more of the  aid was comprised of concessionary loans, much of which had to be used toward military  assistance.58 The  normalization  of  relations  with  Japan  is  one  of  the  most  underappreciated  accomplishments of President Park. Korea would get access to foreign capital but also  trade and technology. The US also pushed for normal ties between the countries as a way  to  wean  Korea  off  of  aid  and  foster  development. Against  fierce,  often  violent,  public  objections at home, President Park made the decision to normalize relations with Japan  in  1965;  subsequently,  Japan  committed  to  US$  800  million  of  economic  cooperation  funds, or reparations in the eyes of Koreans, in the form of grants (US$ 300 million), and  concessionary (US$ 200 million) and commercial loans (US$ 300 million), most of which  was to be allocated to the agricultural sectors. Instead, a good deal of the funds was used  to finance Korea’s industrialization. To prevent the misappropriation of funds for political  purposes, a legal statue was enacted into law - the “Law of Operation and Management  of Japanese Reparations,” the most serious offense being punishable by death. After all,  Japanese economic assistance was considered by Koreans as blood money, reparations for  36 years of colonial rule. The law proved effective in deterring corruption and misuse of  the funds.  
Chapter 5 Taking Ownership • 089
to construct a viable steel industry due to lack of economies of scale, poor technologies,  and insufficient demand for steel. The World Bank was also highly skeptical of the Korean  government’s plans, recommending that it focus on the labor-intensive machinery industry.  Indeed, the lack of infrastructure and small domestic market for steel raised questions of  feasibility and scale; could Korea build a steel mill with sufficient economies of scale  to produce quality steel at internationally competitive prices? When a Korean delegate  sounded  the  idea  of  constructing  a  steel  mill,  the  same  question  was  posited  by  a  top  Japanese government official, who suggested that Korea just buy steel from Japan.  President Park didn’t want to just buy steel, he wanted to make it. Unable to secure foreign  capital, the Korean government sought to use some of the Japanese economic cooperation  funds to finance the construction of a steel mill. But it was always going to be easier  convincing the Japanese than Koreans of using a portion of the funds for industrialization.  In fact, a total of US$500 million (US$300 million with no interest and US$200 million  with interest of 3.5 percent) of the funds was earmarked for the agricultural and fishery  sectors. Japanese businesses showed strong interest from the time the Korean government  first approached them for financial and technical assistance in building a steel mill. The  procurement of contracts related to the construction of a steel mill and development of the  Korean market were seen as an economic boon for exporting steel products and industrial  plants. The involvement of the largest Japanese steel companies, which held strong influence  in government and political circles, was critical in allowing some of the Japanese economic  assistance to be used in the construction of a steel mill. Regardless, the shared history and  geographic proximity of Korea and Japan meant that security interests would loom just  as large as economic interests in driving Japan’s Official Development Assistance (ODA)  policy to Korea. As such, the formulation and decision making of Japan’s ODA policy to  Korea transcended the usual government bureaucratic processes.  Once Japan came on board, President Park made the decision to use part of the Japanese  economic cooperation funds to construct Korea’s first integrated steel mill in 1969, which  would eventually become Pohang Iron and Steel Company (POSCO), despite the fierce  social and political backlash. In total, US$77.2 million (US$30.8 million with no interest  and US$46.4 million with interest of 3.5 percent over 20 years with a grace period of seven  years) was used to finance POSCO. The table below shows other areas where Japanese  development  assistance  was  used. A  key  implication  being  that  the  repayment  of  the  concessionary and low interest commercial loans from Japan allowed Korea to build a track  record as a creditor, which allowed it to induce future foreign loans that were critical in  financing its export-led industrialization.  (Unit: US$ Million, %) Source: EPB (1976), White Book on Reparations pp. 378-381 Japanese  assistance  in  health  and  education  contributed  to  improving  public  health  and  education  in  Korea.  Like  many  poor  developing  countries,  Korea  suffered  from  a  high rate of parasite infection including ascaris and trichuris due to poor sanitation and  inadequate public health. In the 1950s, the parasite infection rate was estimated to be nearly  80%. Efforts to address the high infection rate first began in 1948 when the US military  government conducted public examinations for infections. In 1964, the Korean Association  of Parasite Eradication (KAPE) was established by the government. However, it lacked the  necessary human resources and technical knowledge and equipment to undertake medical  examinations and tests for parasites. From 1968 to 1974, Japanese development assistance  contributed  to  eradicating the  high  incidence of  parasite  infections  under  the  Overseas  
Chapter 5 Taking Ownership • 091
Technical Cooperation Agency (OTCA). Under this program, a total of US$ 57,750 of  assistance was provided in the first year, US$ 55,450 in the second year, and US$ 11,800  in the third year, to purchase microscopes, mobile clinics, testing equipment, and medicine.  Examination facilities were established across the country. In 1969, students across the  nation in elementary, middle and high school, began to be tested for parasites, when the  infection rate for ascaris was estimated to be 77%. By the mid 1980s, it had fallen to less  than 5% as seen below.

Figure 5-2 | Parasite Infection Rate in Korea
Amazingly, Korea had drastically reduced the infection rate within a very short time,  successfully reducing the rate in less than half the time Japan did. One of the factors that  contributed  to  the  rapid  decrease  was  the  efforts  to  improve  public  health  by  building  sanitation facilities through the Saemaul Movement during the 1970s.59 Japanese  assistance  also  contributed  in  improving  Korea’s  system  of  technical  and  vocational schools, which helped meet the high demand for engineers and skilled workers  as industrialization accelerated. Korea allocated part of Japanese assistance to purchase  modern training equipment for its schools. A total of 1.2 billion yen was used to fund the  purchase of equipment from Japan. In 1972, the Kum-Oh National Technical High School  was established, as a model for technical schools. After initial attempts to train instructors  by sending Koreans to Japan proved too inefficient, the government directly hired eight  highly trained Japanese instructors for a period of three years until the first graduating  class. The Japanese instructors were given a fairly lucrative compensation package that also  included housing benefits to recruit them.  In terms of admissions to Kum-oh, standards were kept high and the admissions process  was very selective based on a combination of academic performance, recommendations  from middle school principals, and an interview as well as a series of aptitude and physical  tests. The school sought to promote balanced education and build a work ethic based on  integrity, precision, and earnestness. The students were also given full scholarships and  other benefits like books and housing. By 1976, among 400 newly admitted students, more  than half were the top 5% of their graduating class from middle schools all over Korea  including 126 valedictorians. Indeed, Korea excelled in international vocational training  competitions (Vocational Olympics), winning nine times in a row during 1977-1991.
As Korea’s industrialization and rural development progressed, the coordination role of  the government became increasingly larger and more complex. Here, we discuss some of  the key features of Korea’s government that were important in coordinating good outcomes  from  a  functional  perspective.  First,  the  series  of  Five-Year  Economic  Development  Plans provided basic guiding principles or a national development strategy. As important,  the implementation of the five year plans took a non-linear approach; in that mid-term  and long-term goals were set i.e. export targets but as much flexibility as possible was  maintained in the implementation of the plans. Many policies and institutional reforms  were pursued by trial and error, and experimentation, resulting in policy innovations, as  policymakers quickly responded to changing policy environment. To better implement the  plans, one of the major organizational changes within government was the creation of the  Economic Planning Board, which effectively combined the functions of budgeting and  economic planning under one “super ministry.” The Deputy Prime Minister was put in  charge of the EPB. It also had the important function of approving loan guarantees in line  with Korea’s industrial policies. The guarantee was approved by the Economic Planning  Board (EPB), which determined the total amount of loans in accordance with investment  priorities specified in its five-year economic development plans. The Ministry of Finance  then monitored all the approved foreign borrowings and their repayment.60 At the same time, the monthly meetings acted as a system of monitoring and evaluation,  and information sharing, of industrial policies in the export and manufacturing sectors.  The meetings were chaired by President Park and attended by top government officials  and businesses, all of whom discussed and deliberated on economic trends and issues.  At  the  project  implementation  level,  government  policies  and  interventions  were  often  implemented at the grass-roots, local level ad cut across multiple ministries and agencies  at the central and local level as well as 0various sectors, such as the Saemaul movement.  
Chapter 5 Taking Ownership • 093
Government  initiatives  like  the  Saemaul  movement  were  successfully  largely  due  to  effective policy coordination amongst multiple organizations, which shared knowledge and  information. For example, the experiences and success stories of Saemaul movement were  recognized and shared in the monthly meetings chaired by Park Chung-Hee and attended  by top government officials. At the same time, there was a system for monitoring and  evaluating projects within the Office of the President’s Secretary which received constant  feedback from officials at the project implementation level. In fact, President Park was  given periodic updates by the secretariat in charge of the Movement.  Examples of Taking Ownership As  discussed  earlier,  greater  tax  revenues  as  a  result  of  the  efforts  tax  reform  and  anti-corruption campaign in government in the 1960s was central to Korea’s economic  development, as Korea had become dependent on foreign aid, which not only accounted for  nearly 53% of total government revenue but also began to decrease by the end of the 1950s.  Moreover,  government  bureaucracy  suffered  from  corruption  and  inefficiencies,  which  became an obstacle to economic reform and progress. After the tax reforms in1966, tax  revenues grew, marking a critical turning point in Korea’s development; Korea went from  being aid dependent to taking ownership of its development process, which as defined under  the DAC principles means “Developing countries set their own development strategies,  improve their institutions and tackle corruption.”  By securing the fiscal resources through tax reform, the Korean government was able  to  make  investments  in  public  goods  necessary  for  economic  development  including  the  construction  of  expressways,  infrastructure  to  support  industrialization,  and  rural  development. Indeed, much was done in the way of government policies that led to poverty  reduction, social equity, and environmental quality, factors that made a more open and  democratic society sustainable in the long-run. These broad based social benefits were  possible because Korea was able to achieve growth with relatively low income inequality,  demonstrated by a low Gini coefficient as seen in the figure below. Indeed, Korea’s pattern  of shared growth would not have been predicted by Kuznets’ hypothesis, which observed  that the distribution of income tends to worsen in the early stages of development.  Figure 5-3 | Gini Coefficient and Real Per Capita Income Growth Gini coefficient 0.7 (1965-90, Annual Average) Peru Chile Mexico Venezuela Argentina Philippines Singapore HongKong Per capita GDP growth rate (%) Source: East Asian Miracle (World Bank, 1993) Korea’s broad based social and economic transformation was in large part due to the  government’s continued policy focus on rural development, which is often neglected in  development policies. As Korea’s rapid industrialization focused on export growth and the  HCI, the income gap between rural and urban areas began to widen. In 1963, per capita  household income in rural and urban households was roughly equal. By 1970, urban income  was 60% higher than rural income, though there was a real increase in rural income of  15-20% during this period. This was a major policy concern since 50% of the population  still lived in rural areas. As such, the government implemented measures at raising the  income and living standards of rural areas. In the beginning of the 1970s, the Saemaul (New  Village) Movement was initiated,61 which was a series of social and economic programs  to develop rural regions based on the basic principles of cooperation, self-help and self- reliance. President Park sought to promote social justice through the Saemaul Movement,  a merit-based approach of rewarding performance. For example, a total of 34,656 villages  were given about 300 bags of cement free of charge each to be used for the good of the  community and for improving living conditions such as building of roads, bridge, wells,  sanitation  facilities,  etc.  Each  village  was  evaluated  and  rewarded  according  to  their  performance. In 1971, only 16,600 villages were evaluated to have had positive outcomes,  and were subsequently, grouped as “self-help” villages and given an additional 500 bags of  cement and one ton of steel rod at their disposal. The performance-based approach served as  the model for other rural development programs including the supply of electricity, where  
Chapter 5 Taking Ownership • 095
villages that showed positive outcomes were supplied electricity first. In less than 10 years,  97% of the villages had secured access to electricity, which was only 20% of the villages in  1971, an unprecedented achievement at the time. The movement also led to the installment  of new roofs, telephone lines, and methane tank and water systems.
The Saemaul Movement was important in instituting new belief systems and building  social capital, being the propagator of a more just and open society. The movement was  community-based and promoted cooperation among villagers and other villages. To build  access roads to villages, land-owners had to be convinced of voluntarily donating some  of their lands for the public good. This process was often long and difficult as owners  were reluctant to donate land. But once the first land owner was persuaded to donate land,  it led to other land donors to do the same. Eventually, enough land was secured to build  the roads, which was constructed voluntarily by the villagers themselves. The construction  of the village access roads led to an improvement in living conditions, the environment  and reduction in transportation costs. For example, villagers had to manually carry coal to  their homes before the roads were widened. After the roads were widened, coal could be  transported by trucks, promoting the widespread use of coal as an alternative to wood for  fuel. This, in turn, slowed deforestation. Under the Saemaul movement, village members  gathered to discuss and deliberate on community-related issues. Even gender equality was  promoted by the Saemaul Movement as women took more proactive roles and villages  began to have both a male and female leader who was chosen by vote.  After generations of over forestation and years of war, Korea was left a barren waste land,  bare of practically any trees. By the end of the 1950s, Korea’s deforestation was at its worst  when about 50% of the mountains were treeless. The environmental impact was significant,  contributing to flash floods, pollution, and lower quality of life. After failed attempts by  previous  governments  to  address  the  environmental  problem  of  deforestation,  the  new  government under Park Chung-Hee enacted a law for the protection and conservation of  forests.62 This helped to slow down deforestation caused by illegal lumbering. However, the  law was largely ineffective because wood was still the main source of energy in many rural  areas. As such, the government strengthened the statutory basis enacting the Forest Law,  where one of its main objectives was to develop the use of coal as an alternative source of  energy.  As part of the reforestation effort, the Korean government implemented soil reclamation  projects to ready the land for tree planting via Public Works Projects (PWP)63 during the  1960s and 1970s. Because the government did not have the fiscal resources to pay workers,  it allotted 1.6 kg of wheat flour that was provided under US aid64 to workers that participated  in the various PWP. However, the program was at first unsuccessful in attracting workers,  as many people figured why work for something that they could eventually get for free  anyway.65 To induce participation, the Park government enacted the “Temporary Law to  Promote  Reforestation”  in  February  1963,  which  made  labor  mandatory  for  two  years  between 1963 and 1964 for males 29-33 years old who did not fulfill their military service  requirements. The program was implemented nationwide, and by the end of 1964, 81% out  of total of 370,000 ha of the land that was planned for reclamation was completed.  
Chapter 5 Taking Ownership • 097
2011 Modularization of Korea’s Development Experience Impact of Foreign Aid on Korea’s Development 
Chapter 6
Conclusion In the context of Korea’s development, and perhaps in general, few would argue against  the importance of aid, and the critical role it can play in assisting developing countries.  There is little doubt that foreign assistance was invaluable in aiding Korea’s survival in  the tumultuous years following its liberation in 1945 until the years immediately after the  Korean War broke out in 1950. But assessing the longer term impact of aid on Korea’s  development presents a more complex challenge. At one point, aid had a depileating effect  on the economy and the government. Corruption and rent-seeking behavior had taken hold  of a government dependent on aid, itself becoming an obstacle to reform and progress.  The lasting effects of aid and development policies on Korea can only be truly understood  after taking a broader view of the development process. In this regard, advances in modern  economics and the lessons of past reform experiences allow us to better explain Korea’s  social  and  economic  transformation.  Despite  the  highly  multi-faceted,  complex,  and  contextual nature of development, policy lessons can be drawn from past experiences and  Korea’s experience can offer some useful insights on current issues.
Few  economists  would  disagree  that  Korea’s  human  capital  was  fundamental  to  its  rapid export-led development not only in the labor-intensive but also in the heavy and  chemical phases of industrialization. Endowed with a rich stock of human capital relative  to physical capital, income, and technology, Korea was able to exploit its comparative  advantage of having an educated and low cost labor force by producing export goods that  were competitive in the international market. Aid was critical in the development of Korea’s  human capital; massive investments were made in public education, particularly in the  expansion of primary education. Beside repairing damaged schools and building new ones,  a considerable amount of technical assistance went into improving the quality of education  in primary and higher education. But investments in education do not explain everything  as the benefits of improved public health also contributed to both an educated and healthy  labor force. The high rate of education and health attainments can be seen in the sharp drop  in the illiteracy rate and incidences of parasite infection early in Korea’s development.
Korea’s equitable distribution of income and wealth has arguably had a profound impact  on Korea’s development prospects. It created favorable preconditions that set the stage for  economic take off and sustained development. Land reform, the redistribution of land to the  rural poor, promoted equity and efficiency in the rural sector, and improved the incentives of  farmers. Most of all, a relative equal distribution of income and wealth in Korea meant that  economic and political power was not concentrated in the hands of a few. The implication  being that once government failure was corrected, government could take ownership of the  development process and actively play a role in coordinating better comes. Had the state  or other self-interested group been an obstacle to development as it once was in Korea,  the subsequent government actions under Park Chung-Hee, such as tax reform and rural  development, could not have been possible.  The turning point in Korea’s development came when the government took ownership  of its development process, representative of this is the tax reform and anti-corruption  campaign, where were perhaps the single most important government action in Korea’s  early development. The implications of successfully implementing tax reform on Korea’s  development cannot be over emphasized. It led to a sound fiscal base that allowed Korea to  maintain macroeconomic stability; to secure foreign borrowings to finance industrialization;  and to implement social and economic policies for broad social benefits like the Saemaul  Movement.  It  shows  how  Korea  took  ownership  of  its  development  and  addressed  widespread  government  failure  (corruption)  by  changing  behavior  within  government.  The  community  and  merit-based  programs  of  the  Saemaul  Movement,  under  the  Park  government illustrates the potential role in policy interventions as a way to change the  behavior of individuals or beliefs by instituting new belief systems (gender equality) and  building social capital (trust, leadership, etc.), being the propagator of a more just and open  society. The Saemaul Movement was a series of social and economic programs to develop  rural regions based on the basic principles of cooperation, self-help and self-reliance. It  was a merit-based approach of rewarding performance to promote social justice. Indeed,  transformational change is “not only about the level of activities (more or less investment)  but also about the kinds of behaviors (beliefs) and institutions that individuals adopt (Hoff,  2000).” In  many  developing  countries,  improving  education  and  health  outcomes  remain  a  priority, especially in the rural sector, where much of the people and poverty are found.  Aid can and should play a role in improving access to education but also the quality of  education. If there is one policy take away from Korea’s experience, it is that it illustrates  the interconnectedness and multi-layered nature of development, which may require a set of  complementary interventions across multi-sectors to achieve better outcomes. In many poor  countries as was the case in Korea, a diagnostic analysis of economic conditions will likely  reveal that several binding constraints may exist at the same time in multiple sectors, which  
Chapter 6 Conclusion • 101
may need to be addressed simultaneously to ensure more desirable development outcomes.  In Korea, equity and higher income in the rural sector may have had strong spillover effects  on investment in health and education. Despite the argument and prospects for promoting  equity and efficiency in the rural sector, land reform as a practical policy instrument for  achieving a more equitable distribution still raises more questions than answers. Moreover,  the  benefits  of  equity  and  higher  income,  and  how  it  affects  the  benefits  of  improved  education and health need to be examined further.
In the context of aid and development, the study of Korea’s development experience  presents  a  dilemma,  since  it  often  always  proves  to  be  the  exception  in  any  topic  of  discussion. Korea’s experience shows how a mix of foreign aid and economic development  polices can lead to exceptional outcomes. However, Korea is one of a very few aid recipient  countries that has achieved economic takeoff and self sustained growth. When we speak of  going beyond aid, we really mean going beyond growth, ensuring that growth in a market  economy is accompanied with broad social benefits. Indeed, growth is important but not the  only thing; policies aimed at growth also need to ensure poverty reduction, social equity,  environmental quality, factors that make a more open and tolerable society more sustainable.  In concluding, modern economics has broadened our understanding of development;  paradoxically, it has become much more challenging to identify policies and institutions  most conducive to growth. If anything past reform experiences have taught us that we  cannot take a narrow view of the development process; instead a broader vision of economic  development is needed.  Acemoglu, Daron. 2005. “Politics and Economics in Weak and Strong States.” Journal of  Monetary Economics. May 2005 52(2005): 1199-1226.
Acemoglu, Daron. 2010. “Institutions, Factor Prices, and Taxation: Virtues of Strong  States?” American Economic Review: Papers & Proceedings 100(2) May 2010: 115- 119.
Amsden, Alice. 1989. Asia’s Next Giant: South Korea and Late Industrialization. N.Y.  Oxford University Press.
Oxford University Press.
Amsden, Alice. 1989. Asia’s Next Giant: South Korea and Late Industrialization. N.Y.  Banerjee, Abhijit V. 1999, “Prospects and Strategies for Land Reform,” Annual World  Bank Conference on Development Economics, World Bank.
Besley, Timothy, and Persson, Torsten. 2010. “State Capacity, Conflict and Development.”  Econometrica, Vol. 78, No.1, 1-34.
Cho Yoon Je and Joon-Kyung Kim. 1997, Credit Policies and the Industrialization of  Korea, Seoul, Korea Development Institute Chu, Keun-Won. 1998, 80 years of Not Looking Back.  Deyo, Frederic, ed. 1987. The Political Economy of the New Asian Industrialism. Ithaca,  Cornell University Press.  Dodge Herbert Wesley. 1971, A History of U.S. Assistance to Korean Education: 1953 to  1966, George Washing University, Ph.D. Dissertation.
Easterly, William and R. Levine. 2001, “It’s Not Factor Accumulation: Stylized Facts and  Growth Models.” The World Bank Economic Review Vol. 15, No. 2, pp. 177-219.  Easterly, William. 2005. “Reliving the 1950s: the Big Push, Poverty Traps, and Takeoffs in  Economic Development.” Journal of Economic Growth Vol. 11, No. 4, pp. 289-318.  Evans, Peter. 1995. Embedded Autonomy: States and Industrial Transformation. Princeton:  Princeton University Press Hasan, Parvez. 2011. “Korean Development, 1973-84: A World Bank Economist  Remembers and Reflects.” Seoul, KDI.  Hausmann, Ricardo, Pritchett, Lant and Rodrik, Dani. 2005. “Growth Accelerations,”  Journal of Economic Growth 10, pp. 309-329.
Hayek, Friedrich A. 1978. “Competition as a Discovery Procedure.” In New Studies in  Philosophy, Politics, Economics and the History of Ideas. Chicago, Ill.: University of  Chicago Press.
Hoff, Karla. 2000. “Beyond Rosentein-Rodan: The Modern Theory of Underdevelopment  Traps.” World Bank Economic Conference.  Hoff, Karla and Joseph E. Stiglitz. 2001. “Modern Economic Theory and Development.”  In Gerald Meier and Joseph Stiglitz, eds., Frontiers of Development Economics: The  Future in Perspective. New York, Oxford University Press, pp389-485.  Johnson Chalmers. 1982. MITI and the Japanese Miracle. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford  University Press.
Kim, Euiwon. 1983. A Study of the History of Korea’s Land.
Referencesns • 103 ReferencesKim, Eun Mee. 1997. Big Business, Strong State: Collusion and Conflict in South Korean  Development, 1960-1990. SUNY Series in Korean Studies. Albany: State University of  New York Press Kim, Joon-Kyung, and Kim, K.S. 2011a. “Tax Administration Reform in Korea and Its  Implications.” KDI School of Public Policy and Management, mimeo.
Kim, Joon-Kyung, and Kim, K.S. 2011b. “Case Study of Technical Cooperation:  Minnesota Project.” KDI School of Public Policy and Management, mimeo.
Krueger Anne. 1974. “The Political Economy of the Rent-Seeking Society,” American  Economic Review 64.3.
Krueger Anne. 1982. The Developmental Role of the Foreign Sector and Aid, Studies in  the Modernization of the Republic of Korea 1945-75, Harvard University Press.
Krugman, Paul. 1993. “Toward a Counter-Counterrevolution in Development Theory.” In  Proceedings of the World Bank Annual Conference on Development Economics, 1992,  15-38.  Lee, Dae-Keun. 2002. The Korean Economy in the Post-Liberation Period and the 1950s (In  Korean), Samsung Economic Research Institute  Lucas, Robert. 1988. “On the Mechanics of Economic Development,” Journal of Monetary  Economics 22: pp 3-42 Mason, Edward, Mahn Je Kim, Dwight Perkins, Kwang Suk Kim, David Cole. 1980.  The Economic and Social Modernization of the Republic of Korea. Cambridge, MA:  Harvard University Press.
Morrow, Robert B. and Kenneth H. Sherper. 1970. “Land Reform in South Korea,”  USAID/Korea Spring Review.
Murphy, K., A. Shleifer, and R. Vishny. 1989. “Industrialization and the Big Push.”  Journal of Political Economy 97(5) October: 1003-1026.  Ninno, del, Subbarao and Milazzo. 2009. “How to Make Public Works Work: A Review of  the Experiences”, World Bank, Social Protection Discussion Paper No. 905.
Pritchett, Lant. 1997. “Divergence, Big Time,” Journal of Economic Perspectives,  American Economic Association, vol. 11(3), pages 3-17.
Rajan G. Raghuram and Arvind Subramanian. 2008. “Aid and Growth: What Does the  Cross-Country Evidence Really Show?” The Review of Economics and Statistics, Vol.  90, No.4, pp: 643-665.  Rodrik, Dani. 1995. “Getting Interventions Right: How South Korea and Taiwan Grew  Rich.” Economic Policy.
Rosenstein-Rodan, Paul. 1943. “Problems of Industrialization of Eastern and Southeastern  Europe.” Economic Journal 53 June-September.
Sachs, Jeffrey D. 2005. The End of Poverty: Economic Possibilities for Our Time. The  Penguin Press: New York.
Sachs, Jeffrey D., John W. McArthur, Guido Schmidt-Traub, Margaret Kruk, Chandrika  Bahadur, Michael Faye, and Gordon McCord. 2003. “Ending Africa’s Poverty Trap,”  Paper presented at Brookings Panel on Economic Activity.
ReferencesStiglitz, Joseph E. 1993. “Comment on ‘Toward a Counter-Counterrevolution in  Development Theory.” Proceedings of the World Bank Annual Conference on  Development Economics, 1992, 39-49.
Tirole, Jean. 1996. “A Theory of Collective Reputations (with Applications to the  Persistence of Corruption and to Firm Quality).” Review of Economic Studies 63(1)  January: 1-22.  Dissertation.
Wade, Robert. 1990. Governing the Market: Economic Theory and the Role of  Government in East Asian Industrialization. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Woo, Jung-Eun. 1991. Race to the Swift. Columbia University Press.  Yoon Bok Nam. 1990. Social History of Korean Literacy, Korea University Ph.D.  Referencesns • 105 r k . o g p s k w w w Ministry of Strategy and Finance, Republic of Korea   427-725, Republic of Korea  Goverment Complex 2, Gwacheon, Korea    Tel. 82-2-2150-7732   www.mosf.go.kr KDI School of Public Policy and Management 130-868, 87 Hoegiro Dongdaemun Gu, Seoul, Korea  Tel. 82-2-3299-1114   www.kdischool.ac.kr Knowledge Sharing Program  Development Research and Learning Network ● 130-868, 87 Hoegiro Dongdaemun Gu, Seoul, Korea ● Tel. 82-2-3299-1071  ● www.kdischool.ac.kr 